GSE10000-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Age-dependent aorta transcriptomes in wild-type and apoE-deficient C57BL/6J mice"'
GSE10000-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We previously observed that formation of aorta and innominate artery atherosclerotic lesions in the intima of hyperlipidemic apoE-deficient mice but not wild-type mice was accompanied by a marked age-dependent adventitial T cell infiltration. As the mice aged, adventitial T cells formed T/T cell-, T/B cell-, and T/B/dendritic cell aggregates adjacent to atherosclerotic lesions. Some of the adventitial infiltrates formed large clusters of various immune cells including T cells, B cells (centrocytes, follicular mantle cells), dendritic cells, follicular dendritic cells, and plasma cells with preferential formation in the suprarenal portion of the abdominal aorta. These data demonstrated that the immune lineage cell composition of atherosclerotic lesions and adventitia were distinct: The macrophage-foam cell-, T cell-, and SMC-dominated cell composition of atherosclerosis lesions versus the presence of immune cells capable of carrying out antigen-dependent T cell-driven humoral immune responses in the adventitia also indicated that immune reactions carried out in lesions or the adventitia are fundamentaly different. To distinguish between immunity-regulating genes in atherosclerosis lesions versus the adventitia, a combination of microarray profiling and laser capture microdissection was used. Stringent filters revealed 1163 differentially up-regulated probesets in apoE-/- mouse aortae at 78 weeks (w) versus 6 w. A fuzzy c-means cluster algorythm identified 2 clusters that significantly differed in their slope angles between time points: An apparent atherosclerosis cluster consisted of 771 probesets and an apparent adventitia cluster consisted of 392 probesets. Up-regulated genes at 32 w mirrored the influx of monocyte/macrophages into intima lesions whereas genes up-regulated between 32-78 w mirrored adventitial inflammation. To segregate both clusters into separate gene ontology (GO) molecular function groups, we determined statistically significant up-regulation (unpaired Student t-test; p < 0.05) between 6-32 w for the atherosclerosis cluster and between 32-78 w for the adventitia cluster. Among others, GO molecular function terms cytokine activity, cytokine binding, and immunoglobulin binding in the atherosclerosis cluster and cytokine activity, chemokine receptor activity, and antigen binding in the ATLO cluster suggested candidate genes in relation to inflammation triggered by macrophages or adventitia infiltration, respectively. Among other prototype atherosclerosis genes such as Itgax (complement receptor 4), Cd68, Lysz (lysozyme), Vcam1, and Icam1, the atherosclerosis cluster showed markedly overrepresented prototype macrophage/foam cell genes regulating inflammation in cytokine activity (GO: 0005125): Spp1 (osteopontin) and Il6; in cytokine binding (GO: 0019955) Cd74, Il10rb, Ccr2, and Ccr5; and in immunoglobulin binding (GO: 00119865) the proinflammatory galactose-binding lectin Lgals3, as well as genes in scavenger receptor activity and lipid transporter activity. By contrast, the adventitia cluster showed overrepresented genes regulating B cell recruitment, B cell maturation, germinal center formation, and autoimmunity in cytokine activity including Cxcl13, Ccl21, and Ltb, in CXC chemokine receptor activity the secondary lymphoid organ counterreceptor of CXCL13 Blr1 (also known as Cxcr5), Cxcr3, and Cxcr6; and in antigen binding several histocompatibility-2 loci and various markedly expressed immunoglobulin genes. As embryonic lymph node development and tertiary lymphoid organ neogenesis share common features signal intensities of genes specifying the GO molecular function term lymph node development (GO: 0048535) were examined in arrays prepared from wild-type and apoE-/- aortae. These results showed that Id2, Nfkb1, and Ltbr were constitutively expressed at significant levels in aortae of both mouse genotypes whereas other genes including Lta, Ltb, Glycam1, and the two lymphorganogenic genes Cxcl13 and Ccl21 were induced at 78 w in apoE-deficient aortae only. Thus, genes expressed by macrophage-foam cells and genes regulating ATLO neogenesis, embryonic lymph node development, or B cell maturation were constitutively expressed in the arterial wall in both genotypes or emerged in a stepwise fashion at 32 w and 78 w. To verify microarray signal intensity data, separate aortae extracts were examined by quantitative RT-PCR (QRT-PCR) analyses of wild-type and apoE-deficient mice at 32 and 78 w. These data showed that array signal values accurately reflected gene transcripts. Cell lineage analyses of the adventitial infiltrate and kinetic aorta microarray- and QRT-PCR analyses thus provided circumstantial evidence that immune responses in atherosclerosis intima lesions and the adventitia were distinct. To examine this possibility further, we selected areas of the abdominal aorta burdened with advanced lesions and separated lesions and corresponding adventitial infiltrates of 78 w old apoE-deficient mice by laser dissection microscopy. In addition, adventitiae of aorta segments that were not associated with adjacent lesions and adventitiae of wild-type mice were prepared. Consistent with the lack of a major adventitial leukocyte infiltration, wild-type adventitiae showed gene expression levels that were similar to lesion-free adventitiae of apoE-deficient mice indicating that atherosclerotic lesions directly affected adventitial inflammation in a segmental fashion. Stringent filter criteria identified genes that were differentially expressed in adventitiae and atherosclerotic lesions. Statistical analyses of overrepresented genes in GO molecular function or biological process groups were particularly instructive in cytokine activity, cytokine binding, antigen processing and presentation as well as in lymph node development. Thus, adventitiae in aorta segments with associated atherosclerotic lesions in cytokine activity showed overrepresentation of genes known to be associated with tertiary lymphoid organ formation including Cxcl13, Ccl21, and Ltb, whereas atherosclerotic lesions showed overrepresentation of prototype atherosclerosis-associated genes Ssp1 (osteopontin), Bmp4 (bone morphogenic protein 4), and Cxc3cl1 (fractalkine); in cytokine binding adventitiae showed overrepresentation of receptors implicated in B cell immunity and autoimmunity including Brl1 (counterreceptor for CXCL13), Ccr7, Tnfrsf4, and Cxcr3 whereas lesions showed overrepresentation of inflammatory mediator receptors including Tnfrs1b, Tgfbr1, and Il7r; moreover, in antigen processing and presentation, adventitiae showed overrepresentation of several histocompatibility loci; additional adventitial gene expression overrepresentations were observed in lymph node development (Fas, SpiB, Ltb, Flt3) whereas lesions showed expression of prototype macrophage genes including Tlr4, Tgfb1, and Tgfb2.  These data provide comprehensive topographical transcriptome information in adventitial tissue adjacent to atherosclerotic lesions versus lesions and are expected to form the basis for future cell lineage expression analyses using single cell detection methodology including ISH."'
GSE10000-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild-type and apoE-deficient mice on the C57BL/6J genetic background were maintained on a standard mouse chow. Total aortae were removed at the age of 6 (n=3), 32 (n=3), or 78 (n=3) w and microarrays were prepared from total RNA extracts or extracts of atherosclerotic lesions and adventitiae obtained by the use of a laser dissection microscope."'
GSE10000-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Age-dependent aorta transcriptomes in wild-type and apoE-deficient C57BL/6J mice"'
GSE10000-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We previously observed that formation of aorta and innominate artery atherosclerotic lesions in the intima of hyperlipidemic apoE-deficient mice but not wild-type mice was accompanied by a marked age-dependent adventitial T cell infiltration. As the mice aged, adventitial T cells formed T/T cell-, T/B cell-, and T/B/dendritic cell aggregates adjacent to atherosclerotic lesions. Some of the adventitial infiltrates formed large clusters of various immune cells including T cells, B cells (centrocytes, follicular mantle cells), dendritic cells, follicular dendritic cells, and plasma cells with preferential formation in the suprarenal portion of the abdominal aorta. These data demonstrated that the immune lineage cell composition of atherosclerotic lesions and adventitia were distinct: The macrophage-foam cell-, T cell-, and SMC-dominated cell composition of atherosclerosis lesions versus the presence of immune cells capable of carrying out antigen-dependent T cell-driven humoral immune responses in the adventitia also indicated that immune reactions carried out in lesions or the adventitia are fundamentaly different. To distinguish between immunity-regulating genes in atherosclerosis lesions versus the adventitia, a combination of microarray profiling and laser capture microdissection was used. Stringent filters revealed 1163 differentially up-regulated probesets in apoE-/- mouse aortae at 78 weeks (w) versus 6 w. A fuzzy c-means cluster algorythm identified 2 clusters that significantly differed in their slope angles between time points: An apparent atherosclerosis cluster consisted of 771 probesets and an apparent adventitia cluster consisted of 392 probesets. Up-regulated genes at 32 w mirrored the influx of monocyte/macrophages into intima lesions whereas genes up-regulated between 32-78 w mirrored adventitial inflammation. To segregate both clusters into separate gene ontology (GO) molecular function groups, we determined statistically significant up-regulation (unpaired Student t-test; p < 0.05) between 6-32 w for the atherosclerosis cluster and between 32-78 w for the adventitia cluster. Among others, GO molecular function terms cytokine activity, cytokine binding, and immunoglobulin binding in the atherosclerosis cluster and cytokine activity, chemokine receptor activity, and antigen binding in the ATLO cluster suggested candidate genes in relation to inflammation triggered by macrophages or adventitia infiltration, respectively. Among other prototype atherosclerosis genes such as Itgax (complement receptor 4), Cd68, Lysz (lysozyme), Vcam1, and Icam1, the atherosclerosis cluster showed markedly overrepresented prototype macrophage/foam cell genes regulating inflammation in cytokine activity (GO: 0005125): Spp1 (osteopontin) and Il6; in cytokine binding (GO: 0019955) Cd74, Il10rb, Ccr2, and Ccr5; and in immunoglobulin binding (GO: 00119865) the proinflammatory galactose-binding lectin Lgals3, as well as genes in scavenger receptor activity and lipid transporter activity. By contrast, the adventitia cluster showed overrepresented genes regulating B cell recruitment, B cell maturation, germinal center formation, and autoimmunity in cytokine activity including Cxcl13, Ccl21, and Ltb, in CXC chemokine receptor activity the secondary lymphoid organ counterreceptor of CXCL13 Blr1 (also known as Cxcr5), Cxcr3, and Cxcr6; and in antigen binding several histocompatibility-2 loci and various markedly expressed immunoglobulin genes. As embryonic lymph node development and tertiary lymphoid organ neogenesis share common features signal intensities of genes specifying the GO molecular function term lymph node development (GO: 0048535) were examined in arrays prepared from wild-type and apoE-/- aortae. These results showed that Id2, Nfkb1, and Ltbr were constitutively expressed at significant levels in aortae of both mouse genotypes whereas other genes including Lta, Ltb, Glycam1, and the two lymphorganogenic genes Cxcl13 and Ccl21 were induced at 78 w in apoE-deficient aortae only. Thus, genes expressed by macrophage-foam cells and genes regulating ATLO neogenesis, embryonic lymph node development, or B cell maturation were constitutively expressed in the arterial wall in both genotypes or emerged in a stepwise fashion at 32 w and 78 w. To verify microarray signal intensity data, separate aortae extracts were examined by quantitative RT-PCR (QRT-PCR) analyses of wild-type and apoE-deficient mice at 32 and 78 w. These data showed that array signal values accurately reflected gene transcripts. Cell lineage analyses of the adventitial infiltrate and kinetic aorta microarray- and QRT-PCR analyses thus provided circumstantial evidence that immune responses in atherosclerosis intima lesions and the adventitia were distinct. To examine this possibility further, we selected areas of the abdominal aorta burdened with advanced lesions and separated lesions and corresponding adventitial infiltrates of 78 w old apoE-deficient mice by laser dissection microscopy. In addition, adventitiae of aorta segments that were not associated with adjacent lesions and adventitiae of wild-type mice were prepared. Consistent with the lack of a major adventitial leukocyte infiltration, wild-type adventitiae showed gene expression levels that were similar to lesion-free adventitiae of apoE-deficient mice indicating that atherosclerotic lesions directly affected adventitial inflammation in a segmental fashion. Stringent filter criteria identified genes that were differentially expressed in adventitiae and atherosclerotic lesions. Statistical analyses of overrepresented genes in GO molecular function or biological process groups were particularly instructive in cytokine activity, cytokine binding, antigen processing and presentation as well as in lymph node development. Thus, adventitiae in aorta segments with associated atherosclerotic lesions in cytokine activity showed overrepresentation of genes known to be associated with tertiary lymphoid organ formation including Cxcl13, Ccl21, and Ltb, whereas atherosclerotic lesions showed overrepresentation of prototype atherosclerosis-associated genes Ssp1 (osteopontin), Bmp4 (bone morphogenic protein 4), and Cxc3cl1 (fractalkine); in cytokine binding adventitiae showed overrepresentation of receptors implicated in B cell immunity and autoimmunity including Brl1 (counterreceptor for CXCL13), Ccr7, Tnfrsf4, and Cxcr3 whereas lesions showed overrepresentation of inflammatory mediator receptors including Tnfrs1b, Tgfbr1, and Il7r; moreover, in antigen processing and presentation, adventitiae showed overrepresentation of several histocompatibility loci; additional adventitial gene expression overrepresentations were observed in lymph node development (Fas, SpiB, Ltb, Flt3) whereas lesions showed expression of prototype macrophage genes including Tlr4, Tgfb1, and Tgfb2.  These data provide comprehensive topographical transcriptome information in adventitial tissue adjacent to atherosclerotic lesions versus lesions and are expected to form the basis for future cell lineage expression analyses using single cell detection methodology including ISH."'
GSE10000-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild-type and apoE-deficient mice on the C57BL/6J genetic background were maintained on a standard mouse chow. Total aortae were removed at the age of 6 (n=3), 32 (n=3), or 78 (n=3) w and microarrays were prepared from total RNA extracts or extracts of atherosclerotic lesions and adventitiae obtained by the use of a laser dissection microscope."'
GSE10001_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiling in NCoR deficient mouse livers"'
GSE10017_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The glomerular filtration barrier prevents large serum proteins from being lost into the urine. It is not known, however, why the filter does not routinely clog with large proteins that enter the glomerular basement membrane (GBM). Here we provide evidence that an active transport mechanism exists to remove immunoglobulins that accumulate at the filtration barrier. We found that FcRn, an IgG and albumin transport receptor, is expressed in podocytes and functions to internalize IgG from the GBM. Mice lacking FcRn accumulated IgG in the GBM as they aged and tracer studies showed delayed clearance of IgG from the kidneys of FcRn deficient mice. Supporting a role for this pathway in disease, saturating the clearance mechanism potentiated the pathogenicity of nephrotoxic sera. These studies support the idea that podocytes play an active role in removing proteins from the GBM and suggest that genetic or acquired impairment of the clearance machinery is likely to be a common mechanism promoting glomerular diseases."'
GSE10017_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The glomerular filtration barrier prevents large serum proteins from being lost into the urine. It is not known, however, why the filter does not routinely clog with large proteins that enter the glomerular basement membrane (GBM). Here we provide evidence that an active transport mechanism exists to remove immunoglobulins that accumulate at the filtration barrier. We found that FcRn, an IgG and albumin transport receptor, is expressed in podocytes and functions to internalize IgG from the GBM. Mice lacking FcRn accumulated IgG in the GBM as they aged and tracer studies showed delayed clearance of IgG from the kidneys of FcRn deficient mice. Supporting a role for this pathway in disease, saturating the clearance mechanism potentiated the pathogenicity of nephrotoxic sera. These studies support the idea that podocytes play an active role in removing proteins from the GBM and suggest that genetic or acquired impairment of the clearance machinery is likely to be a common mechanism promoting glomerular diseases."'
GSE10045_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Atrial and ventricular tissue samples were collected from wildtype and transgenic animals lacking a functional circadian clock within the cardiomyocytes every three hours for a period of 24 hours (n=4 samples per time point; total of 128 samples).  Circadian patterns of gene expression were fit for each gene in wild-type atria and ventricle, and then differences in oscillating genes between wild-type and transgenic tissues were determined."'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression data from murine liver samples comparing hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) knockout mice vs. wildtype mice"'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"HSL is a key enzyme in in the mobilization of fatty acids from the triglyceride stores of white adipose tissue. In addition, it is expressed in mice liver.  In the present microarray study, changes in the transcript profile of murine liver samples due to global HSL knockout were investigated."'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Genetic modification to analyze the impact of a general knockout of the HSL gene on liver metabolism."'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"HSL knockout (ko) mice versus wildtype (wt) mice. Mice fed a normal diet (ND) versus mice fed a high fat diet (FD) for 6 months. Equal amounts of liver samples from six mice were pooled and total RNA was extracted, except for HSL-null mice on FD were only 4 livers were pooled."'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"HSL knockout (ko) mice versus wildtype (wt) mice. Mice fed a normal diet (ND) versus mice fed a high fat diet (FD) for 6 months. Equal amounts of liver samples from six mice were pooled and total RNA was extracted, except for HSL-null mice on FD were only 4 livers were pooled."'
GSE10067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"HSL knockout (ko) mice versus wildtype (wt) mice. Mice fed a normal diet (ND) versus mice fed a high fat diet (FD) for 6 months. Equal amounts of liver samples from six mice were pooled and total RNA was extracted, except for HSL-null mice on FD were only 4 livers were pooled."'
GSE10082_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Conventional biochemical and molecular techniques identified previously several genes whose expression is regulated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). We sought to map the complete spectrum of AHR-dependent genes in male adult liver using expression arrays to contrast mRNA profiles in Ahr-null mice (Ahr–/–) with those in mice with wild-type AHR (Ahr+/+). Transcript profiles were determined both in untreated mice and in mice treated 19 h earlier with 1000 µg/kg 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Expression of 456 ProbeSets was significantly altered by TCDD in an AHR-dependent manner, including members of the classic AHRE-I gene battery, such as Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1, and Nqo1. In the absence of exogenous ligand, AHR status alone affected expression of 392 ProbeSets, suggesting that the AHR has multiple functions in normal physiology. In Ahr–/– mice, only 32 ProbeSets exhibited responses to TCDD, indicating that the AHR is required for virtually all transcriptional responses to dioxin exposure in liver. The flavin-containing monooxygenases, Fmo2 and Fmo3, considered previously to be uninducible, were highly induced by TCDD in an AHR-dependent manner. The estrogen receptor alpha as well as two estrogen-receptor-related genes (alpha and gamma) exhibit AHR-dependent expression, thereby extending cross-talk opportunities between the intensively studied AHR and estrogen receptor pathways. p53 binding sites are over-represented in genes down-regulated by TCDD, suggesting that TCDD inhibits p53 transcriptional activity. Overall, our study identifies a wide range of genes that depend on the AHR, either for constitutive expression or for response to TCDD."'
GSE10084_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"Each experiment was performed in biological duplicates from 4 pooled animals. Since TCDD treatment showed only marginal impact on the gene expression (~10 transcripts effected in wt mice) wt - ko comparisons were performed on pooled profiles from TCDD and solvent mice."'
GSE10113_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of gene expression pattern between Wild-type and Hypb knockout embryo yolk sacs"'
GSE10113_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"This study aimed at exploring the physiological function of mammalian HYPB by means of knockout mouse model. Homogenous disruption of mouse Hypb gene leads to embryonic lethality at E10.5-E11.5. Severe vascular defects were observed in the Hypb-/- embryos, yolk sac and placenta.In the mutant embryo and yolk sac, disorganized and abnormally dilated capillaries cannot be remodeled into large blood vessels or intricate networks. Thus, our results suggest that the mammalian HYPB HMT plays an important role in embryonic vascularization."'
GSE10113_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockout, mouse embryo development, angiogenesis, yolk sac, E9.0, E10.5"'
GSE10117_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'haploinsufficiency' in '!Series_title	"Murine Spleen: Wild type vs Brx haploinsufficiency"'
GSE10162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Dent disease has multiple defects attributed to proximal tubule malfunction including low molecular weight proteinuria, aminoaciduria, phosphaturia and glycosuria. In order to understand the changes in kidney function of the Clc5 transporter gene knockout mouse model of Dent disease, we examined gene expression profiles from proximal tubules of mouse kidneys."'
GSE10162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Overall 720 genes are expressed differentially in the proximal tubules of the Dent Clcn5 knockout mouse model compared to those of control wild type mice. The fingerprint of these gene changes may help us to understand the phenotype of Dent disease."'
GSE10162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene knockout, mouse, Clcn5, Dent's disease"'
GSE10162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Renal proximal tubules were dissected from wild type and Clcn5 knockout mice. Mice were anesthetized with halothane, the abdominal aorta of each animal was accessed and the left kidney was perfused with an ice-cold salt.  Proximal tubule dissection was performed in an ice-cold salt solution. After dissection of approximately 80-100 segments of 2 mm in length per kidney, the RNA for 3-4 mice was combined to have enough RNA per chip."'
GSE10162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"3 microarrays each of wild type and knockout mouse proximal tubule were processed"'
GSE10163_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression profiling of tissues derived from different genetic backgrounds can provide insight to potential phenotype-related changes in gene expression.  We have compared wildtype C57BL/6 (melan-Ink4a) melanocyte cell gene expression to that of, “brown“ Tyrp1b/ b (melan-Ink4a-b) and “chocolate” Rab38 cht/cht (melan-cht) melanocyte derived lines. We observed alterations in gene expression consistent with a physiological response of melan-Ink4a-b cells to endoplasmic reticulum protein-folding impairment. Additionally, a set of loci was identified that are expressed in a similar manner to known melanocyte genes. Importantly, the collection of 254 genes is enriched for expression in the multiple melanocyte lines relative to control cell populations. This set contains Tyr, Tyrp1, Dct, Si, Melna, Slc24a5, Slc45a2, Slc24a4, Mitf, and Sox10, in addition to genes not previously attributed to pigmentation and genes with unknown function. Further evaluation of one gene in this cohort, Gpnmb, demonstrated an expression pattern similar to Dct, Si and Mitf. This expression is vastly reduced in MitfMi mutants embryos, indicating that it is dependent on Mitf for in vivo expression. Consistent with this notion, a highly-conserved MITF binding site resides directly upstream of human GPNMB, and deletion of this sequence dramatically reduces in vitro enhancer activity."'
GSE10167_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'haploin-sufficiency' in '!Series_summary	"The object of this study was to identify genes transcriptionally upregulated and downregulated in response to Tcof1 haploin-sufficiency during mouse embryogensis"'
GSE10170_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A relationship exists between nuclear architecture and gene activity and it has been proposed that the activity of ongoing RNA polymerase II transcription determines genome organization in the mammalian cell nucleus. Recently developed 3C and 4C technology allowed us to test the importance of transcription for nuclear architecture. We demonstrate that upon transcription inhibition binding of RNA polymerase II to gene regulatory elements is severely reduced. However, contacts between regulatory DNA elements and genes in the β-globin locus are unaffected and the locus still interacts with the same genomic regions elsewhere on the chromosome. This is a general phenomenon since the great majority of intra- and interchromosomal interactions with the ubiquitously expressed Rad23a gene are also not affected. Our data demonstrate that without transcription the organization and modification of nucleosomes at active loci and the local binding of specific trans-acting factors is unaltered. We propose that these parameters, more than transcription or RNA polymerase II binding, determine the maintenance of long-range DNA interactions. "'
GSE10170_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: transcription inhibition 4C"'
GSE10175_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The development of the epidermis, a stratified squamous epithelium, is dependent on the regulated differentiation of keratinocytes. Differentiation begins with the initiation of stratification, a process tightly controlled through proper gene expression. AP-2γ is expressed in skin and previous research suggested a pathway where p63 gene induction results in increased expression of AP-2γ which in turn is responsible for induction of K14. This study uses a conditional gene ablation model to further explore the role of AP-2γ in skin development.  Mice deficient for AP-2γ exhibited delayed expression of p63, K14, and K1, key genes required for development and differentiation of the epidermis. In addition, microarray analysis of E16.5 skin revealed delayed expression of additional late epidermal differentiation genes: filaggrin, repetin and secreted Ly6/Plaur domain containing 1, in mutant mice. The genetic delay in skin development was further confirmed by a functional delay in the formation of an epidermal barrier. These results document an important role for AP-2γ in skin development, and reveal the existence of regulatory factors that can compensate for AP-2γ in its absence."'
GSE10190_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Emerging evidence implicates transcriptional dyseregulation within skeletal muscle in the pathogenesis of Kennedy disease/spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (KD/SBMA). We therefore broadly characterized gene expression in skeletal muscle of three independently generated mouse models of this disorder. The mouse models included a polyglutamine expanded (polyQ) AR knock-in model (AR113Q KI), a polyQ AR transgenic model (AR97Q Tg), and a transgenic mouse which overexpresses wild type AR solely in muscle (HSA-AR Tg). We performed microarray analysis of lower hindlimb muscles taken from these three models using high density oligonucleotide arrays. Changes in gene expression relative to wild type controls were evaluated separately in each strain. We validated our results using quantitative RT-PCR. Patterns of gene expression that are common to all lines and unique to each are described.  When considered globally, the degree of overlap between the three models is approximately equivalent, and several patterns of gene expression relevant to the disease process were observed. Notably, patterns of gene expression typical of loss of AR function were observed in all three models, as were alterations in genes involved in cell adhesion, energy balance, Huntington’s disease, muscle atrophy and myogenesis. By comparing patterns of gene expression in three independent models of KD/SBMA, we have been able to identify candidate genes that might mediate the core myogenic features of KD/SBMA."'
GSE10200_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Dose response - MYC inactivation by doxycycline treatment"'
GSE10216_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_title	"Emx2 knock-out urogenital epithelium"'
GSE10216_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"The epithelial cells of the gonadal primordium were obtained by Laser Microdissection System. The specimens prepared from three individuals were mixed as one pool. There are three experimental replicates in each genotype, 3-pools of wild-type and 3-pools of Emx2 KO mouse."'
GSE10218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Keratinocyte specific Fos-deletion in K5-Sos-F mouse tumor model"'
GSE10218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Expression and function of the oncogenic transcription factor AP-1 (mainly composed of Jun and Fos proteins) is required for neoplastic transformation of mouse and human keratinocytes in vitro and tumor promotion as well as malignant progression in vivo. Here, we describe the identification of novel Fos target genes using global gene expression profiling with samples from a tumor model of mouse skin (K5-SOS-F). We could identify 366 differentially expressed genes comparing expression profiles from tumor samples of control animals with samples derived form mice with a specific deletion of fos in keratinocytes."'
GSE10218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Fos-deletion, Fos-floxed, K5-SOS-F mouse tumor model, skin papilloma, global gene expression, microarray, Fos target in skin carcinogenesis"'
GSE10218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"In the present Experiment two different genotypes in combination with an established mouse tumor model were compared. An active form of the Sos (son of sevenless) is expressed under a keratin5 promoter leading to a constitutive activation of the Ras-Raf pathway, which results in skin papilloma formation. In the context of this tumor model an epidermis specific homozygote Fos-deletion was compared to homozygous floxed Fos-alleles. Both genotypes (Fos-deleted and Fos-floxed) were treated equally. The specimens were taken from skin papilloma at the mouse tail. A total number of six specimens from six different individuals (three biological replicates per genotype) were taken. Each sample was prepared and hybridized against Universal Mouse Reference RNA (Stratagene) in a dye-swap experiment, resulting in two technical replicates for each specimen, respectively."'
GSE10235_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Transgenic inhibition of astroglial NF-kappaB in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis"'
GSE10235_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In the central nervous system (CNS) the transcription factor NF-kappaB is a key regulator of inflammation and secondary injury processes. Following trauma or disease, the expression of NF-kappaB-dependent genes is activated, leading to both protective and detrimental effects on CNS recovery. Here we show that transgenic inactivation of astroglial NF-kappaB in mice (GFAP-IkappaBalpha-dn mice) resulted in dramatic reduction of disease severity and improvement in functional recovery following EAE. This coincided with a higher presence of leukocytes in the cord and brain of transgenic mice at the chronic phase of the disease, when the functional recovery over WT mice was the most significant. We observed that expression of proinflammatory genes in both spinal cord and cerebellum was delayed and reduced, while the loss of neuronal-specific molecules essential for synaptic transmission was limited compared to WT mice. Furthermore, death of retinal ganglion cells in affected retinas was almost abolished, suggesting the activation of neuroprotective mechanisms. Our data indicate that inhibiting NF-kappaB in astrocytes results in neuroprotective effects following EAE, directly implicating astrocytes in the pathophysiology of this disease."'
GSE10235_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"In the central nervous system (CNS) the transcription factor NF-kappaB is a key regulator of inflammation and secondary injury processes. Following trauma or disease, the expression of NF-kappaB-dependent genes is activated, leading to both protective and detrimental effects on CNS recovery. Here we show that transgenic inactivation of astroglial NF-kappaB in mice (GFAP-IkappaBalpha-dn mice) resulted in dramatic reduction of disease severity and improvement in functional recovery following EAE. This coincided with a higher presence of leukocytes in the cord and brain of transgenic mice at the chronic phase of the disease, when the functional recovery over WT mice was the most significant. We observed that expression of proinflammatory genes in both spinal cord and cerebellum was delayed and reduced, while the loss of neuronal-specific molecules essential for synaptic transmission was limited compared to WT mice. Furthermore, death of retinal ganglion cells in affected retinas was almost abolished, suggesting the activation of neuroprotective mechanisms. Our data indicate that inhibiting NF-kappaB in astrocytes results in neuroprotective effects following EAE, directly implicating astrocytes in the pathophysiology of this disease."'
GSE10250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylases (HDAC) are enzymes that modify key residues in histones to regulate chromatin architecture, and play a vital role in cell survival, cell cycle progression, and tumorigenesis. To understand the function of Hdac3, a critical component of the N-CoR/SMRT repression complex, a conditional allele of Hdac3 was engineered. Given the vital role of HDAC3 in normal cells and in the generation and treatment of various cancers, a conditional deletion of Hdac3 was engineered in mice. The deletion of Hdac3 in the germ line yielded very early embryonic lethality. Therefore, mouse embryonic-derived fibroblasts (MEFs) containing the Hdac3 conditional allele were used to examine the function of Hdac3 in cell viability and in cell cycle control. Given the links between Hdac3 and transcriptional repression, we used oligonucleotide micro arrays to examine RNA isolated from control and Cre recombinase expressing MEFs to define the changes in gene expression upon inactivation of Hdac3.  Initially, we compared RNA from Ad-Cre infected Hdac3FL/+ and Hdac3FL/- MEFs and then we extended the analysis to Hdac3FL/- MEFs expressing Cre-ER (tamoxifen responsive Cre-estrogen receptor fusion protein).  When the gene expression of ethanol-treated (vehicle) and tamoxifen-treated MEFs was compared at 72 hr post-induction, 83 genes were induced and 111 genes were down-regulated at least 1.5-fold upon inactivation of Hdac3.  Approximately, 48 genes were up-regulated in both Ad-Cre and tamoxifen-treated MEFs at the 72 hr time point.  The majority of the affected genes were associated with signal transduction and metabolism. Overall, few of the up-regulated genes at the 72hr time point in Ad-Cre and tamoxifen-treated MEFs are associated with apoptosis or with cell cycle control. Thus, these metabolic regulatory genes may be “core” Hdac3-regulated genes, and alterations in gene expression are unlikely to trigger apoptosis. "'
GSE10250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylases (HDAC) are enzymes that modify key residues in histones to regulate chromatin architecture, and play a vital role in cell survival, cell cycle progression, and tumorigenesis. To understand the function of Hdac3, a critical component of the N-CoR/SMRT repression complex, a conditional allele of Hdac3 was engineered. Given the vital role of HDAC3 in normal cells and in the generation and treatment of various cancers, a conditional deletion of Hdac3 was engineered in mice. The deletion of Hdac3 in the germ line yielded very early embryonic lethality. Therefore, mouse embryonic-derived fibroblasts (MEFs) containing the Hdac3 conditional allele were used to examine the function of Hdac3 in cell viability and in cell cycle control. Given the links between Hdac3 and transcriptional repression, we used oligonucleotide micro arrays to examine RNA isolated from control and Cre recombinase expressing MEFs to define the changes in gene expression upon inactivation of Hdac3.  Initially, we compared RNA from Ad-Cre infected Hdac3FL/+ and Hdac3FL/- MEFs and then we extended the analysis to Hdac3FL/- MEFs expressing Cre-ER (tamoxifen responsive Cre-estrogen receptor fusion protein).  When the gene expression of ethanol-treated (vehicle) and tamoxifen-treated MEFs was compared at 72 hr post-induction, 83 genes were induced and 111 genes were down-regulated at least 1.5-fold upon inactivation of Hdac3.  Approximately, 48 genes were up-regulated in both Ad-Cre and tamoxifen-treated MEFs at the 72 hr time point.  The majority of the affected genes were associated with signal transduction and metabolism. Overall, few of the up-regulated genes at the 72hr time point in Ad-Cre and tamoxifen-treated MEFs are associated with apoptosis or with cell cycle control. Thus, these metabolic regulatory genes may be “core” Hdac3-regulated genes, and alterations in gene expression are unlikely to trigger apoptosis. "'
GSE10273_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Productive rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus triggers a major developmental checkpoint that promotes limited clonal expansion of pre-B cells, culminating in cell cycle  arrest and rearrangement of the kappa (κ) or lambda (λ) light-chain loci. B lineage cells lacking the related transcription factors IRF-4 and IRF-8 undergo a developmental arrest at the cycling pre-B cell stage and are blocked for light-chain recombination. Using Irf-4,8-/- pre-B cells we demonstrate that two pathways converge to synergistically drive light-chain rearrangement, a process that is not simply activated by cell cycle exit. One pathway is directly dependent on IRF-4, whose expression is elevated by pre-BCR signaling.  IRF-4 targets the κ 3′ and λ enhancers to increase locus accessibility and positions a kappa allele away from pericentromeric heterochromatin. The other pathway is triggered by attenuation of IL-7 signaling and results in activation of the κ intronic enhancer via binding of the transcription factor, E2A. Intriguingly, IRF-4 regulates the expression of CXCR4 and promotes the migration of pre-B cells in response to the chemokine CXCL12. We propose that IRF-4 coordinates the two pathways regulating light-chain recombination by positioning pre-B cells away from IL-7 expressing stromal cells."'
GSE10273_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"IRF4,8 null pre-B cells were cultures in the indicated conditions prior to RNA isolation and hybridization to Affymetrix arrays."'
GSE10285_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression of Ethanol-treated hepatocytes from WT and transglutaminase 2 knockout mice"'
GSE10290_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Beyond demonstrating a critical role for progesterone receptor signaling in normal mammary epithelial proliferation, the progesterone receptor knockout mouse disclosed the progesterone receptor along with its effector pathways as key determinants of mammary neoplastic progression.  Despite these advances, however, further progress in our mechanistic understanding of progesterone’s involvement in mammary morphogenesis and tumorigenesis is contingent upon defining the essential effector pathways responsible for transducing the progesterone signal into a mammary proliferative and/or pro-survival response.  Toward this goal, a judiciously chosen acute progesterone treatment regimen together with microarray methods was applied to the mammary gland of the normal mouse to uncover new effectors that operate immediately downstream of the progesterone mammary signal.  Examination of the resultant progesterone-responsive transcriptome disclosed “inhibitor of differentiation or DNA binding 4” (Id4) as a molecular target acutely induced by progesterone in the murine mammary epithelium."'
GSE10297_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Leptin, a hormone produced primarily by adipose tissue, plays a role in both energy homeostasis and reproduction, and is required in early pregnancy.  Leptin stimulates metalloproteinase activity in cultured human trophoblast and stimulates invasiveness of cultured mouse trophoblast.  The goal of the present study was to examine molecular mechanisms of this function in primary cultures of mouse trophoblast.  Leptin was found to stimulate the phosphorylation of MEK, but not STAT3.. It also increased levels of the protein SOCS3.  The ability of leptin to stimulate metalloproteinase activity was blocked by the MEK inhibitor PD98059, but also by the vehicle inhibitor DMSO.  Microarray analysis revealed that leptin stimulated some genes associated with cell motility, such as Stmn1.  In addition, leptin appeared to inhibit changes in gene expression associated with terminal differentiation of trophoblast giant cells, including inhibition of members of the TGFß signaling pathway and of genes associated with endoreduplication.  However, feulgen staining revealed a loss of cells with low ploidy.  We conclude that leptin may be promoting trophoblast invasion by maintaining cells in an intermediate stage of differentiation."'
GSE10297_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Leptin, a hormone produced primarily by adipose tissue, plays a role in both energy homeostasis and reproduction, and is required in early pregnancy.  Leptin stimulates metalloproteinase activity in cultured human trophoblast and stimulates invasiveness of cultured mouse trophoblast.  The goal of the present study was to examine molecular mechanisms of this function in primary cultures of mouse trophoblast.  Leptin was found to stimulate the phosphorylation of MEK, but not STAT3.. It also increased levels of the protein SOCS3.  The ability of leptin to stimulate metalloproteinase activity was blocked by the MEK inhibitor PD98059, but also by the vehicle inhibitor DMSO.  Microarray analysis revealed that leptin stimulated some genes associated with cell motility, such as Stmn1.  In addition, leptin appeared to inhibit changes in gene expression associated with terminal differentiation of trophoblast giant cells, including inhibition of members of the TGFß signaling pathway and of genes associated with endoreduplication.  However, feulgen staining revealed a loss of cells with low ploidy.  We conclude that leptin may be promoting trophoblast invasion by maintaining cells in an intermediate stage of differentiation."'
GSE10310-GPL4134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In this study cDNA microarrays were used to profile gene expression changes in the brains of two different strains of mice infected with three strains of mouse-adapted scrapie.  Extensive data was collected and analyzed, from which we identified a core group of 349 prion-related genes (PRGs) that consistently showed altered expression in mouse models.  Gene ontology analysis assigned many of the up-regulated genes to functional groups associated with one of the primary neuropathological features of prion diseases, astrocytosis and gliosis; protein synthesis, inflammation, cell proliferation and lipid metabolism.  Using a computational tool, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), we were able to build networks of interacting genes from the PRG list. The regulatory cytokine TGFB1, involved in modulating the inflammatory response, was identified as the outstanding interaction partner for many of the PRGs.  The majority of genes expressed in neurons were down-regulated; a number of these were involved in regulatory pathways including synapse function, calcium signalling, long-term potentiation and ERK/MAPK signalling.  Two down-regulated genes coding for the transcription regulators, EGR1 and CREB1, were also identified as central to interacting networks of genes; these factors are often used as markers of neuronal activity and their deregulation could be key to loss of neuronal function. "'
GSE10310-GPL6412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In this study cDNA microarrays were used to profile gene expression changes in the brains of two different strains of mice infected with three strains of mouse-adapted scrapie.  Extensive data was collected and analyzed, from which we identified a core group of 349 prion-related genes (PRGs) that consistently showed altered expression in mouse models.  Gene ontology analysis assigned many of the up-regulated genes to functional groups associated with one of the primary neuropathological features of prion diseases, astrocytosis and gliosis; protein synthesis, inflammation, cell proliferation and lipid metabolism.  Using a computational tool, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), we were able to build networks of interacting genes from the PRG list. The regulatory cytokine TGFB1, involved in modulating the inflammatory response, was identified as the outstanding interaction partner for many of the PRGs.  The majority of genes expressed in neurons were down-regulated; a number of these were involved in regulatory pathways including synapse function, calcium signalling, long-term potentiation and ERK/MAPK signalling.  Two down-regulated genes coding for the transcription regulators, EGR1 and CREB1, were also identified as central to interacting networks of genes; these factors are often used as markers of neuronal activity and their deregulation could be key to loss of neuronal function. "'
GSE10318_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Methods and Results: We analyzed mice ectopically expressing Tbx3 in the atrial myocardium by genome-wide microarray and expression analysis. We found a prominent role for Tbx3 in defining the nodal phenotype by repressing working myocardial genes (sarcomeric, mitochondrial, fast conduction) and cell proliferation regulators, and in inducing node-associated genes. Moreover, there was a striking induction of genes associated with endocardial cushions and mesenchyme. Using gain-of-function models, we found that in the developing heart both Tbx2 and Tbx3 induce ectopic Bmp2 and Tgfb2 expression and endocardial cushion formation. Analysis of compound Tbx2/Tbx3 mutant embryos revealed that upon loss of more than two functional alleles, expansion of the AV myocardium does not occur and AV cushions fail to form."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The catecholamine norepinephrine is required for fetal survival, but its essential function is unknown.  When catecholamine-deficient [tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) null] mouse fetuses die at E13.5-E14.5, they resemble wild type fetuses exposed to hypoxia. They exhibit bradycardia (28% reduction in heart rate), thin ventricular myocardium (20% reduction in tissue), epicardial detachment, and death with vascular congestion, hemorrhage and edema. At E12.5, prior to the appearance of morphological deficits associated with Th deletion, catecholamine-deficient fetuses are preferentially killed by experimentally-induced hypoxia and have lower tissue pO2 than wild type siblings.  Catecholamine-deficient fetuses also induced HIF-1 target genes to a greater extent than wild type siblings, supporting the notion that null fetuses experience greater hypoxia or have an enhanced response to hypoxia. Hypoxia induces a 13-fold increase in plasma norepinephrine levels, which would be expected to increase heart rate, thereby, improving oxygen delivery in wild type mice. Surprisingly, increasing maternal oxygen (FiO2 33% or 63%) prevents the effects of catecholamine-deficiency, restoring heart rate, myocardial mass and survival of Th null fetuses.  We suggest that norepinephrine mediates fetal survival by maintaining oxygen homeostasis as vulnerability to constitutive hypoxia increases as fetal growth accelerates during normal development."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The catecholamine norepinephrine is required for fetal survival, but its essential function is unknown.  When catecholamine-deficient [tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) null] mouse fetuses die at E13.5-E14.5, they resemble wild type fetuses exposed to hypoxia. They exhibit bradycardia (28% reduction in heart rate), thin ventricular myocardium (20% reduction in tissue), epicardial detachment, and death with vascular congestion, hemorrhage and edema. At E12.5, prior to the appearance of morphological deficits associated with Th deletion, catecholamine-deficient fetuses are preferentially killed by experimentally-induced hypoxia and have lower tissue pO2 than wild type siblings.  Catecholamine-deficient fetuses also induced HIF-1 target genes to a greater extent than wild type siblings, supporting the notion that null fetuses experience greater hypoxia or have an enhanced response to hypoxia. Hypoxia induces a 13-fold increase in plasma norepinephrine levels, which would be expected to increase heart rate, thereby, improving oxygen delivery in wild type mice. Surprisingly, increasing maternal oxygen (FiO2 33% or 63%) prevents the effects of catecholamine-deficiency, restoring heart rate, myocardial mass and survival of Th null fetuses.  We suggest that norepinephrine mediates fetal survival by maintaining oxygen homeostasis as vulnerability to constitutive hypoxia increases as fetal growth accelerates during normal development."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The catecholamine norepinephrine is required for fetal survival, but its essential function is unknown.  When catecholamine-deficient [tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) null] mouse fetuses die at E13.5-E14.5, they resemble wild type fetuses exposed to hypoxia. They exhibit bradycardia (28% reduction in heart rate), thin ventricular myocardium (20% reduction in tissue), epicardial detachment, and death with vascular congestion, hemorrhage and edema. At E12.5, prior to the appearance of morphological deficits associated with Th deletion, catecholamine-deficient fetuses are preferentially killed by experimentally-induced hypoxia and have lower tissue pO2 than wild type siblings.  Catecholamine-deficient fetuses also induced HIF-1 target genes to a greater extent than wild type siblings, supporting the notion that null fetuses experience greater hypoxia or have an enhanced response to hypoxia. Hypoxia induces a 13-fold increase in plasma norepinephrine levels, which would be expected to increase heart rate, thereby, improving oxygen delivery in wild type mice. Surprisingly, increasing maternal oxygen (FiO2 33% or 63%) prevents the effects of catecholamine-deficiency, restoring heart rate, myocardial mass and survival of Th null fetuses.  We suggest that norepinephrine mediates fetal survival by maintaining oxygen homeostasis as vulnerability to constitutive hypoxia increases as fetal growth accelerates during normal development."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"The first aim was to compare gene expression of E12.5 mouse fetuses between wild type (Th+/+) versus tyrosine hydroxylase null (Th-/-) animals from normoxic dams. This resulted in 6 arrays."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"The second aim compared wild type and tyrosine hydroxylase null E12.5 fetuses from dam exposed to hypoxia (8% oxygen) for 6 hours prior to sacrifice at E12.5 of gestation. This resulted in 6 arrays."'
GSE10341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"The third aim was to compare HIF-1 targets behind wt and null fetuses"'
GSE10347_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression data from Hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase knockout mouse muscle at 4 weeks"'
GSE10347_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (H6PD)is the initial component of a pentose phosphate pathway inside the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that generates NADPH for ER enzymes. In liver, H6PD is required for the 11-oxoreductase activity of 11ss-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11ss-HSD1), which converts inactive 11-oxo glucocorticoids to their active 11-hydroxyl counterparts; consequently, H6PD null mice are relatively insensitive to glucocorticoids, exhibiting fasting hypoglycemia, increased insulin sensitivity despite elevated circulating levels of corticosterone, and increased basal and insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in muscles normally enriched in Type II (fast) fibers which have increased glycogen content. They also display a progressive vacuolar myopathy evident after 4 weeks of age."'
GSE10347_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"We carried out microarray analysis on TA and soleus muscles from 4 week old WT and KO mice to determine an expression profile predicting myopathy."'
GSE10386_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"nuclear factor (NF) kB, a master transcriptional regulator of inflammation in multiple tissues. Genetic as well as acute deficiency of RIP140, which has been characterized as a co-repressor of various nuclear receptors on metabolic target genes, led to the inhibition of the proinflammatory"'
GSE10386_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"for macrophages from RIP140 knockout or wild-type mice. "'
GSE10389-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Identification of Stat5 Target Genes by siRNA-mediated knockdown"'
GSE10389-GPL82_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Identification of Stat5 Target Genes by siRNA-mediated knockdown"'
GSE10389-GPL83_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Identification of Stat5 Target Genes by siRNA-mediated knockdown"'
GSE10390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"A series of dual-channel gene expression profiles obtained using Rosetta/Agilent  Whole Mouse Genome oligonucleotide microarrays, 4 x 44K format, was used to identify sex-dependent and HNF4alpha-dependent differences in gene expression in adult mouse liver. This series is comprised of four sex-genotype combinations: adult male wild-type liver (M-WT), adult female wild-type liver (F-WT), adult male liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (M-KO) and adult female liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (F-KO). Four pools, each comprised of 4 randomly selected individual liver RNAs, were prepared for each sex-genotype combination. The pools were paired randomly to generate 4 separate experimental comparisons: M-WT:F-WT (first array comparison), M-WT:M-KO (second array comparison), F-WT:F-KO (third array comparison), and M-KO:F-KO (fourth array comparison). A total of 4994 HNF4alpha-dependent genes were identified, of which ~1000 fewer genes responded to the loss of HNF4alpha in female liver as compared to male liver. Moreover, 90% of the genes showing sex-specific expression in the liver were shown to lose sex specificity in HNF4alpha-deficient liver.  "'
GSE10390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"A series of dual-channel gene expression profiles obtained using Rosetta/Agilent  Whole Mouse Genome oligonucleotide microarrays, 4 x 44K format, was used to identify sex-dependent and HNF4alpha-dependent differences in gene expression in adult mouse liver. This series is comprised of four sex-genotype combinations: adult male wild-type liver (M-WT), adult female wild-type liver (F-WT), adult male liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (M-KO) and adult female liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (F-KO). Four pools, each comprised of 4 randomly selected individual liver RNAs, were prepared for each sex-genotype combination. The pools were paired randomly to generate 4 separate experimental comparisons: M-WT:F-WT (first array comparison), M-WT:M-KO (second array comparison), F-WT:F-KO (third array comparison), and M-KO:F-KO (fourth array comparison). A total of 4994 HNF4alpha-dependent genes were identified, of which ~1000 fewer genes responded to the loss of HNF4alpha in female liver as compared to male liver. Moreover, 90% of the genes showing sex-specific expression in the liver were shown to lose sex specificity in HNF4alpha-deficient liver.  "'
GSE10390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A series of dual-channel gene expression profiles obtained using Rosetta/Agilent  Whole Mouse Genome oligonucleotide microarrays, 4 x 44K format, was used to identify sex-dependent and HNF4alpha-dependent differences in gene expression in adult mouse liver. This series is comprised of four sex-genotype combinations: adult male wild-type liver (M-WT), adult female wild-type liver (F-WT), adult male liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (M-KO) and adult female liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (F-KO). Four pools, each comprised of 4 randomly selected individual liver RNAs, were prepared for each sex-genotype combination. The pools were paired randomly to generate 4 separate experimental comparisons: M-WT:F-WT (first array comparison), M-WT:M-KO (second array comparison), F-WT:F-KO (third array comparison), and M-KO:F-KO (fourth array comparison). A total of 4994 HNF4alpha-dependent genes were identified, of which ~1000 fewer genes responded to the loss of HNF4alpha in female liver as compared to male liver. Moreover, 90% of the genes showing sex-specific expression in the liver were shown to lose sex specificity in HNF4alpha-deficient liver.  "'
GSE10390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"A series of dual-channel gene expression profiles obtained using Rosetta/Agilent  Whole Mouse Genome oligonucleotide microarrays, 4 x 44K format, was used to identify sex-dependent and HNF4alpha-dependent differences in gene expression in adult mouse liver. This series is comprised of four sex-genotype combinations: adult male wild-type liver (M-WT), adult female wild-type liver (F-WT), adult male liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (M-KO) and adult female liver-specific HNF4alpha knockout liver (F-KO). Four pools, each comprised of 4 randomly selected individual liver RNAs, were prepared for each sex-genotype combination. The pools were paired randomly to generate 4 separate experimental comparisons: M-WT:F-WT (first array comparison), M-WT:M-KO (second array comparison), F-WT:F-KO (third array comparison), and M-KO:F-KO (fourth array comparison). A total of 4994 HNF4alpha-dependent genes were identified, of which ~1000 fewer genes responded to the loss of HNF4alpha in female liver as compared to male liver. Moreover, 90% of the genes showing sex-specific expression in the liver were shown to lose sex specificity in HNF4alpha-deficient liver.  "'
GSE10390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: genetic knockout and sex response "'
GSE10401-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"E2F4 wt and knockout neurospheres"'
GSE10401-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"E2F4 wild and knockout type neurospheres from E12.5 forebrain. E2F4 transcription factor regulates the expression of the genes which are required for neural stem cell expansion in the developing mouse brain. The results of microarray analysis will help to identify the signaling pathways affected by E2F4 deletion and refine the neural stem cell regulatory mechanism."'
GSE10401-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"E2F4 wild and knockout type neurospheres from E12.5 forebrain. E2F4 transcription factor regulates the expression of the genes which are required for neural stem cell expansion in the developing mouse brain. The results of microarray analysis will help to identify the signaling pathways affected by E2F4 deletion and refine the neural stem cell regulatory mechanism."'
GSE10401-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"E2F4 wt and knockout neurospheres"'
GSE10401-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"E2F4 wild and knockout type neurospheres from E12.5 forebrain. E2F4 transcription factor regulates the expression of the genes which are required for neural stem cell expansion in the developing mouse brain. The results of microarray analysis will help to identify the signaling pathways affected by E2F4 deletion and refine the neural stem cell regulatory mechanism."'
GSE10401-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"E2F4 wild and knockout type neurospheres from E12.5 forebrain. E2F4 transcription factor regulates the expression of the genes which are required for neural stem cell expansion in the developing mouse brain. The results of microarray analysis will help to identify the signaling pathways affected by E2F4 deletion and refine the neural stem cell regulatory mechanism."'
GSE10421_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: Although hepcidin expression was shown to be induced by the BMP signaling pathway, it is not yet known how iron regulates hepcidin and which of the BMP molecules is the endogenous regulator of iron homeostasis in vivo. We therefore assessed liver transcription profiles of mice fed an iron-deficient or an iron-enriched diet and looked for genes that were regulated similarly to hepcidin in that context."'
GSE10421_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Methods: Genome-wide liver expression profiles of mice of the B6 and D2 genetic backgrounds subjected to iron-deficient, -balanced, or -enriched diets were obtained using Agilent Whole Genome microarrays. Real-time quantitative-PCR and western-blots were used to confirm microarray results and compare gene expression variations induced by secondary iron deficiency or iron overload with those consecutive to Smad4 or Hamp1-deficiency. "'
GSE10421_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Results: Among 1419 transcripts significantly modulated by the dietary iron content, four were regulated similarly to the hepcidin genes Hamp1 and Hamp2. They are coding for Bmp6, the regulator of Bmp/Smad signal transduction Smad7, the negative regulator of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins Id1, and a protein with a bHLH domain, Atoh8. The iron overload developed by Smad4 and Hamp1-deficient mice also increased Bmp6 transcription. Body iron stores influence Smad1/5/8 phosphorylation and, as shown by analysis of mice with liver-specific disruption of Smad4, the binding partner for the receptor-activated Smads is necessary for activation of Smad7, Id1, and Atoh8 transcription by iron."'
GSE10422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Traf2 and Traf3 B cell knockout mice and Baff tg mice - gene expression in lymph node B cells"'
GSE10422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Tumor necrosis factor-associated factors 2 and 3 (TRAF2 and TRAF3) were shown to function in a co-operative and non-redundant manner to suppress nuclear factor-κB2 (NF-κB2) activation, gene expression and survival in mature B cells. In the absence of this suppressive activity, B cells developed independently of the obligatory B cell survival factor, BAFF (B cell activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor family).  This constitutive, lineage-specific suppression of B cell survival by TRAF2 and TRAF3 determines the requirement for BAFF to sustain B cell development in vivo.  We wished to investigate the effect on gene expression in B cells which lacked the negative regulators TRAF2 and TRAF3, and hence had hyperactive NF-kB2 signalling.  As Baff-tg mice display a similar phenotype, and have a genetic modification which acts in the same pathway, yet further up, than TRAF2 and TRAF3, we wished to compare and contrast Baff-tg B cells with TRAF2 and TRAF3 deficient B cells.  This analysis should identify genes that are important in B cell survival."'
GSE10422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lymph node B cells were purified from Traf2 B cell knockout mice, Traf3 B cell knockout mice, Baff-tg mice and respective controls.  RNA was extracted and hybridised to Affymetrix 430 2.0 Mouse Genome Arrays.  Samples were processed and hence analysed on three spearate days.  Day 1 two control mice: Traf2lox/lox pool and CD19-cretg were compared to two knockout mice: Traf2DB 80 and Traf3DB 94.  On Day 2 three control mice: Traf2lox/lox 77, Traf2lox/lox 79 and Traf3lox/lox 97 were compared to two knockout mice: Traf2DB 76 and Traf3DB 01.  On Day 3 three control mice: WT33, WT34, WT35 were compared to three Baff-tg mice: Baff-tg 99, Baff-tg 100, Baff-tg 101."'
GSE10428-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Satellite cells play an important role in post-natal growth and regeneration of skeletal muscle. They can be defined as a population adult muscle stem cells based on their self renewal capability and ability to differentiate into skeletal muscle fibers. Functional Retinoblastoma protein (pRb) is essential for the process of skeletal muscle differentiation in satellite cell derived primary myoblasts. Furthermore, the biochemical function of pRb is largely associated with its ability to interact with chromatin modifying factors such as histone deacetylases (HDACs) and histone methyltransferases thus inhibiting transcription of target gene promoters. Hence, expression profiling of pRb null primary myoblasts and myotubes will provide a global picture of the downstream targets of pRb transcriptional regulation in relation to cell cycle control, apoptosis inhibition, and muscle differentiation."'
GSE10428-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Satellite cells play an important role in post-natal growth and regeneration of skeletal muscle. They can be defined as a population adult muscle stem cells based on their self renewal capability and ability to differentiate into skeletal muscle fibers. Functional Retinoblastoma protein (pRb) is essential for the process of skeletal muscle differentiation in satellite cell derived primary myoblasts. Furthermore, the biochemical function of pRb is largely associated with its ability to interact with chromatin modifying factors such as histone deacetylases (HDACs) and histone methyltransferases thus inhibiting transcription of target gene promoters. Hence, expression profiling of pRb null primary myoblasts and myotubes will provide a global picture of the downstream targets of pRb transcriptional regulation in relation to cell cycle control, apoptosis inhibition, and muscle differentiation."'
GSE10428-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Satellite cells play an important role in post-natal growth and regeneration of skeletal muscle. They can be defined as a population adult muscle stem cells based on their self renewal capability and ability to differentiate into skeletal muscle fibers. Functional Retinoblastoma protein (pRb) is essential for the process of skeletal muscle differentiation in satellite cell derived primary myoblasts. Furthermore, the biochemical function of pRb is largely associated with its ability to interact with chromatin modifying factors such as histone deacetylases (HDACs) and histone methyltransferases thus inhibiting transcription of target gene promoters. Hence, expression profiling of pRb null primary myoblasts and myotubes will provide a global picture of the downstream targets of pRb transcriptional regulation in relation to cell cycle control, apoptosis inhibition, and muscle differentiation."'
GSE10428-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Satellite cells play an important role in post-natal growth and regeneration of skeletal muscle. They can be defined as a population adult muscle stem cells based on their self renewal capability and ability to differentiate into skeletal muscle fibers. Functional Retinoblastoma protein (pRb) is essential for the process of skeletal muscle differentiation in satellite cell derived primary myoblasts. Furthermore, the biochemical function of pRb is largely associated with its ability to interact with chromatin modifying factors such as histone deacetylases (HDACs) and histone methyltransferases thus inhibiting transcription of target gene promoters. Hence, expression profiling of pRb null primary myoblasts and myotubes will provide a global picture of the downstream targets of pRb transcriptional regulation in relation to cell cycle control, apoptosis inhibition, and muscle differentiation."'
GSE10430-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found '-/-' in '!Series_summary	"Note that the Triplicate1 sample = MyoD-/-1999; Triplicate 2 sample = MyoD-/-p6; Triplicate 3 sample = MyoD-/-p10."'
GSE10430-GPL82_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found '-/-' in '!Series_summary	"Note that the Triplicate1 sample = MyoD-/-1999; Triplicate 2 sample = MyoD-/-p6; Triplicate 3 sample = MyoD-/-p10."'
GSE10430-GPL83_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found '-/-' in '!Series_summary	"Note that the Triplicate1 sample = MyoD-/-1999; Triplicate 2 sample = MyoD-/-p6; Triplicate 3 sample = MyoD-/-p10."'
GSE10470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene Expression Study in WT and ATF4 KO embryonic neurons "'
GSE10470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Oxidative stress is pathogenic in neurological diseases including stroke. The identity of oxidative stress-inducible transcription factors and their role(s) in propagating the death cascade are poorly understood. Microarray analysis of neurons undergoing oxidative stress showed significant induction of prodeath genes. These genes have been shown to be regulated by the bZip transcription factor, ATF4. ATF4 protein localized to the promoter of a putative death gene in neurons in vitro and in vivo. Germline deletion of ATF4 in neurons resulted in a reduction in oxidative stress-induced gene expression and resistance to oxidative death. ATF4 knockout mice experienced significantly smaller infarcts and improved behavioral recovery as compared to wild-type mice subjected to the same reductions in blood flow in a rodent model of stroke. ATF4 modulates an early, upstream event in the death pathway, as resistance to oxidative death by ATF4 deletion was associated with decreased consumption of  the antioxidant glutathione. Restoration of ATF4 protein in knockout neurons was sufficient to restore sensitivity to oxidative death and to reaccelerate loss of glutathione. Together, these findings establish ATF4 as a redox-regulated, pro-death transcriptional activator in the nervous system that propagates death responses to oxidative stress in vitro and to stroke in vivo."'
GSE10470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Oxidative stress is pathogenic in neurological diseases including stroke. The identity of oxidative stress-inducible transcription factors and their role(s) in propagating the death cascade are poorly understood. Microarray analysis of neurons undergoing oxidative stress showed significant induction of prodeath genes. These genes have been shown to be regulated by the bZip transcription factor, ATF4. ATF4 protein localized to the promoter of a putative death gene in neurons in vitro and in vivo. Germline deletion of ATF4 in neurons resulted in a reduction in oxidative stress-induced gene expression and resistance to oxidative death. ATF4 knockout mice experienced significantly smaller infarcts and improved behavioral recovery as compared to wild-type mice subjected to the same reductions in blood flow in a rodent model of stroke. ATF4 modulates an early, upstream event in the death pathway, as resistance to oxidative death by ATF4 deletion was associated with decreased consumption of  the antioxidant glutathione. Restoration of ATF4 protein in knockout neurons was sufficient to restore sensitivity to oxidative death and to reaccelerate loss of glutathione. Together, these findings establish ATF4 as a redox-regulated, pro-death transcriptional activator in the nervous system that propagates death responses to oxidative stress in vitro and to stroke in vivo."'
GSE10470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Oxidative stress is pathogenic in neurological diseases including stroke. The identity of oxidative stress-inducible transcription factors and their role(s) in propagating the death cascade are poorly understood. Microarray analysis of neurons undergoing oxidative stress showed significant induction of prodeath genes. These genes have been shown to be regulated by the bZip transcription factor, ATF4. ATF4 protein localized to the promoter of a putative death gene in neurons in vitro and in vivo. Germline deletion of ATF4 in neurons resulted in a reduction in oxidative stress-induced gene expression and resistance to oxidative death. ATF4 knockout mice experienced significantly smaller infarcts and improved behavioral recovery as compared to wild-type mice subjected to the same reductions in blood flow in a rodent model of stroke. ATF4 modulates an early, upstream event in the death pathway, as resistance to oxidative death by ATF4 deletion was associated with decreased consumption of  the antioxidant glutathione. Restoration of ATF4 protein in knockout neurons was sufficient to restore sensitivity to oxidative death and to reaccelerate loss of glutathione. Together, these findings establish ATF4 as a redox-regulated, pro-death transcriptional activator in the nervous system that propagates death responses to oxidative stress in vitro and to stroke in vivo."'
GSE10470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"WT and ATF4 KO embryonic neurons were studied. "'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of mouse ES cells, Ring1A/B double KO"'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of mouse ES cells, Ring1A/B double KO"'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2)1-5.  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC13-7. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog9. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"We observed gene expression of Ring1B single and Ring1A/B double KO cells using Affymetrix chip: MOE 430 2.0."'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"We observed gene expression of Ring1B single and Ring1A/B double KO cells using Affymetrix chip: MOE 430 2.0."'
GSE10476_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Because constitutive Ring1A/B-dKO cells can not be maintained we generated conditional KO cells with OHT."'
GSE10477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of mouse ES cell, conditional Pou5f1 KO"'
GSE10477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2)1-5.  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC13-7. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog9. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"These experiments were designed to investigate how gene expression would be affected in the absence of Oct3/4 in mouse ES cells. Because constitutive Oct3/4 KO cells are not maintained, we generated conditional KO cells."'
GSE10498-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of SCG expression profiles from Bax null versus NGF-Bax double null mice"'
GSE10498-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment examine gene expression differences in superior cervical ganglia fro P0 bax null versus NGF-Bax double null animals. The Bax genotype was used in order to prevent the neuronal cell death normally observed in the NGF null animal."'
GSE10498-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of SCG expression profiles from Bax null versus NGF-Bax double null mice"'
GSE10498-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment examine gene expression differences in superior cervical ganglia fro P0 bax null versus NGF-Bax double null animals. The Bax genotype was used in order to prevent the neuronal cell death normally observed in the NGF null animal."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Identification of transcriptional changes due to loss of Hdac3 in liver at P17 and P28"'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) is the enzymatic component of transcriptional repression complexes recruited by the nuclear hormone receptors.  Inactivation of Hdac3 in cancer cell lines triggered apoptosis, and removal of Hdac3 in the germ-line of mice caused embryonic lethality.  Therefore, we conditionally deleted the Hdac3 allele in the mouse liver.  These mice developed hepatomegaly, which was the result of hepatocyte hypertrophy, and these morphological changes coincided with significant imbalances between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.  Loss of Hdac3 triggered changes in gene expression consistent with inactivation of repression mediated by nuclear hormone receptors.  Mechanistically, loss of Hdac3 increased the levels of Pparγ2, and treatment of these mice with a Pparγ antagonist partially reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.  In addition, gene expression analysis identified mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling as being activated by deletion of Hdac3, and inhibition by rapamycin also affected the accumulation of neutral lipids in the Hdac3-null livers.  Thus, Hdac3 has a key role in regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the liver, and deletion of Hdac3 disrupts normal metabolic homeostasis."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) is the enzymatic component of transcriptional repression complexes recruited by the nuclear hormone receptors.  Inactivation of Hdac3 in cancer cell lines triggered apoptosis, and removal of Hdac3 in the germ-line of mice caused embryonic lethality.  Therefore, we conditionally deleted the Hdac3 allele in the mouse liver.  These mice developed hepatomegaly, which was the result of hepatocyte hypertrophy, and these morphological changes coincided with significant imbalances between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.  Loss of Hdac3 triggered changes in gene expression consistent with inactivation of repression mediated by nuclear hormone receptors.  Mechanistically, loss of Hdac3 increased the levels of Pparγ2, and treatment of these mice with a Pparγ antagonist partially reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.  In addition, gene expression analysis identified mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling as being activated by deletion of Hdac3, and inhibition by rapamycin also affected the accumulation of neutral lipids in the Hdac3-null livers.  Thus, Hdac3 has a key role in regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the liver, and deletion of Hdac3 disrupts normal metabolic homeostasis."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) is the enzymatic component of transcriptional repression complexes recruited by the nuclear hormone receptors.  Inactivation of Hdac3 in cancer cell lines triggered apoptosis, and removal of Hdac3 in the germ-line of mice caused embryonic lethality.  Therefore, we conditionally deleted the Hdac3 allele in the mouse liver.  These mice developed hepatomegaly, which was the result of hepatocyte hypertrophy, and these morphological changes coincided with significant imbalances between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.  Loss of Hdac3 triggered changes in gene expression consistent with inactivation of repression mediated by nuclear hormone receptors.  Mechanistically, loss of Hdac3 increased the levels of Pparγ2, and treatment of these mice with a Pparγ antagonist partially reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.  In addition, gene expression analysis identified mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling as being activated by deletion of Hdac3, and inhibition by rapamycin also affected the accumulation of neutral lipids in the Hdac3-null livers.  Thus, Hdac3 has a key role in regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the liver, and deletion of Hdac3 disrupts normal metabolic homeostasis."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) is the enzymatic component of transcriptional repression complexes recruited by the nuclear hormone receptors.  Inactivation of Hdac3 in cancer cell lines triggered apoptosis, and removal of Hdac3 in the germ-line of mice caused embryonic lethality.  Therefore, we conditionally deleted the Hdac3 allele in the mouse liver.  These mice developed hepatomegaly, which was the result of hepatocyte hypertrophy, and these morphological changes coincided with significant imbalances between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.  Loss of Hdac3 triggered changes in gene expression consistent with inactivation of repression mediated by nuclear hormone receptors.  Mechanistically, loss of Hdac3 increased the levels of Pparγ2, and treatment of these mice with a Pparγ antagonist partially reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.  In addition, gene expression analysis identified mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling as being activated by deletion of Hdac3, and inhibition by rapamycin also affected the accumulation of neutral lipids in the Hdac3-null livers.  Thus, Hdac3 has a key role in regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the liver, and deletion of Hdac3 disrupts normal metabolic homeostasis."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) is the enzymatic component of transcriptional repression complexes recruited by the nuclear hormone receptors.  Inactivation of Hdac3 in cancer cell lines triggered apoptosis, and removal of Hdac3 in the germ-line of mice caused embryonic lethality.  Therefore, we conditionally deleted the Hdac3 allele in the mouse liver.  These mice developed hepatomegaly, which was the result of hepatocyte hypertrophy, and these morphological changes coincided with significant imbalances between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.  Loss of Hdac3 triggered changes in gene expression consistent with inactivation of repression mediated by nuclear hormone receptors.  Mechanistically, loss of Hdac3 increased the levels of Pparγ2, and treatment of these mice with a Pparγ antagonist partially reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.  In addition, gene expression analysis identified mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling as being activated by deletion of Hdac3, and inhibition by rapamycin also affected the accumulation of neutral lipids in the Hdac3-null livers.  Thus, Hdac3 has a key role in regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the liver, and deletion of Hdac3 disrupts normal metabolic homeostasis."'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Genetic knockout of Hdac3 specifically in liver, and RNA analyzed from postnatal day 17 or 28 livers for transcriptional changes related to the given phenotypes"'
GSE10503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Postnatal day 17 or 28 mice were used for the microarray analysis.  Total RNA was extracted from livers of either Hdac3 wild-type/heterozygous mice expressing Albumin-Cre or Hdac3-null livers, and pooled together in groups of 5.  One pool of control or Hdac3-null liver RNA from both time points was used in technical replicates, meaning each sample was run in duplicate on separate lots of microarray chips to determine reproducibility of the Applied Biosystems ABI1700 chips.  The second set of RNA pools were used as biological replicates for each group at each time point."'
GSE10504-GPL3793_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL4865_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10516_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A control vs. genetic knockout experiment aimed at determining what RNAs are upregulated or downregulated in e11.5 mouse proximal limb tissue lacking the Lmx1b gene.  Because Lmx1b is required for dorsal-ventral patterning of the limb, this screen gives insight into what putative downstream targets of Lmx1b contribute to dorsal-ventral patterning."'
GSE10516_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"A control vs. genetic knockout experiment aimed at determining what RNAs are upregulated or downregulated in e11.5 mouse proximal limb tissue lacking the Lmx1b gene.  Because Lmx1b is required for dorsal-ventral patterning of the limb, this screen gives insight into what putative downstream targets of Lmx1b contribute to dorsal-ventral patterning."'
GSE10519_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of mouse ES cells, Dnmt1 KO"'
GSE10519_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2)1-5. PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC13-7. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8. PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog9. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4. We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10519_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gene expression in Dnmt1-KO cells were observed using Affymetrix chip: MOE 430 2.0."'
GSE10519_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"These experiments were performed to obtain control of KO cells for other experiments that affect stem cell differentiation."'
GSE10530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Bone marrow derived macrophages from wt and card9 KO mice were stimulated  with CpG, Curdlan or TDB, an analogon to the mycobacterial cord factor TDM for 48h, respectively."'
GSE10530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: card9 knockout, macropphage, TDB"'
GSE10530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"wt or card9 KO macrophages stimulated for 48h"'
GSE10534_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2)1.  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC1. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog9. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10535_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Retinas were dissected from ~4 weeks old mice. Retinas from 3 prCAD knockout mice or wild type 129 mice were pooled for each sample and 3 replicate of wild type and mutant samples were analysed."'
GSE10536_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2).  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC1. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog9. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10552_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Genome wide expression analysis in AtT-20 cells following Dnmt1 knockdown"'
GSE10552_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Efficient and sustained knockdown of DNMT1 transcript and protein was achieved using a consecutive transfection protocol in the mouse pituitary adenoma cell line, AtT-20.  Genome wide microarray analysis identified 91 transcripts that were significantly differentially expressed relative to cells treated with a non-targeting control."'
GSE10553_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_title	"BAF 250 ko ES cells series"'
GSE10555_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Comparision of expression profile between wild-type and Slc39a13 knockout osteoblasts"'
GSE10555_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"In order to explore molecules whose expression is controlled by Slc39a13, we investigated gene expression profiling of primary osteoblast isolated from wild-type and Slc39a13 knockout mice."'
GSE10555_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockout vs wild-type"'
GSE10555_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"wild-type vs Slc39a13 knockout"'
GSE10556_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Comparision of expression profile between wild-type and Slc39a13 knockout chondrocytes"'
GSE10556_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"In order to explore molecules whose expression is controlled by Slc39a13, we investigated gene expression profiling of primary chondrocyte isolated from wild-type and Slc39a13 knockout mice."'
GSE10556_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockout vs wild-type"'
GSE10556_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"wild-type vs Slc39a13 knockout"'
GSE10562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Genome-wide identification of bona fide targets of transcription factors in mammalian cells is still a challenge. We present a novel integrated computational and experimental approach to identify direct targets of a transcription factor. This consists in measuring time-course (dynamic) gene expression profiles upon perturbation of the transcription factor under study, and in applying a novel reverse-engineering” algorithm (TSNI) to rank genes according to their probability of being direct targets. Using primary keratinocytes as a model system, we identified novel transcriptional target genes of Trp63, a crucial regulator of skin development. TSNI-predicted Trp63 target genes were validated by Trp63 knockdown and by ChIP-chip to identify Trp63-bound regions in vivo. Our study revealed that short sampling times, in the order of minutes, are needed to capture the dynamics of gene expression in mammalian cells. We show that Trp63 transiently regulates a subset of its direct targets, thus highlighting the importance of considering temporal dynamics when identifying transcriptional targets. Using this approach, we uncovered a previously unsuspected transient regulation of the AP-1 complex by Trp63, through direct regulation of a subset of AP-1 components. The integrated experimental and computational approach described here is readily applicable to other transcription factors in mammalian systems and is complementary to genome-wide identification of transcription factor binding sites."'
GSE10563_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Genome-wide identification of bona fide targets of transcription factors in mammalian cells is still a challenge. We present a novel integrated computational and experimental approach to identify direct targets of a transcription factor. This consists in measuring time-course (dynamic) gene expression profiles upon perturbation of the transcription factor under study, and in applying a novel reverse-engineering” algorithm (TSNI) to rank genes according to their probability of being direct targets. Using primary keratinocytes as a model system, we identified novel transcriptional target genes of Trp63, a crucial regulator of skin development. TSNI-predicted Trp63 target genes were validated by Trp63 knockdown and by ChIP-chip to identify Trp63-bound regions in vivo. Our study revealed that short sampling times, in the order of minutes, are needed to capture the dynamics of gene expression in mammalian cells. We show that Trp63 transiently regulates a subset of its direct targets, thus highlighting the importance of considering temporal dynamics when identifying transcriptional targets. Using this approach, we uncovered a previously unsuspected transient regulation of the AP-1 complex by Trp63, through direct regulation of a subset of AP-1 components. The integrated experimental and computational approach described here is readily applicable to other transcription factors in mammalian systems and is complementary to genome-wide identification of transcription factor binding sites."'
GSE10564_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Genome-wide identification of bona fide targets of transcription factors in mammalian cells is still a challenge. We present a novel integrated computational and experimental approach to identify direct targets of a transcription factor. This consists in measuring time-course (dynamic) gene expression profiles upon perturbation of the transcription factor under study, and in applying a novel reverse-engineering” algorithm (TSNI) to rank genes according to their probability of being direct targets. Using primary keratinocytes as a model system, we identified novel transcriptional target genes of Trp63, a crucial regulator of skin development. TSNI-predicted Trp63 target genes were validated by Trp63 knockdown and by ChIP-chip to identify Trp63-bound regions in vivo. Our study revealed that short sampling times, in the order of minutes, are needed to capture the dynamics of gene expression in mammalian cells. We show that Trp63 transiently regulates a subset of its direct targets, thus highlighting the importance of considering temporal dynamics when identifying transcriptional targets. Using this approach, we uncovered a previously unsuspected transient regulation of the AP-1 complex by Trp63, through direct regulation of a subset of AP-1 components. The integrated experimental and computational approach described here is readily applicable to other transcription factors in mammalian systems and is complementary to genome-wide identification of transcription factor binding sites."'
GSE10573-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2).  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC1. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10573-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip experiments (GSM266076 and GSM266077) revealed the Ring1B-binding sites in promoter regions in ES cells. Microarray experiments were also performed (GSM265040 and GSM265041 for Ring1B KO, GSM265042 and GSM265043 for Ring1A and Ring1B double KO, and GSM265044, GSM265045 and GSM266115 for Oct3/4 KO)."'
GSE10573-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip experiments (GSM266076 and GSM266077) revealed the Ring1B-binding sites in promoter regions in ES cells. Microarray experiments were also performed (GSM265040 and GSM265041 for Ring1B KO, GSM265042 and GSM265043 for Ring1A and Ring1B double KO, and GSM265044, GSM265045 and GSM266115 for Oct3/4 KO)."'
GSE10573-GPL4128_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2).  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC1. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10573-GPL4128_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip experiments (GSM266076 and GSM266077) revealed the Ring1B-binding sites in promoter regions in ES cells. Microarray experiments were also performed (GSM265040 and GSM265041 for Ring1B KO, GSM265042 and GSM265043 for Ring1A and Ring1B double KO, and GSM265044, GSM265045 and GSM266115 for Oct3/4 KO)."'
GSE10573-GPL4128_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip experiments (GSM266076 and GSM266077) revealed the Ring1B-binding sites in promoter regions in ES cells. Microarray experiments were also performed (GSM265040 and GSM265041 for Ring1B KO, GSM265042 and GSM265043 for Ring1A and Ring1B double KO, and GSM265044, GSM265045 and GSM266115 for Oct3/4 KO)."'
GSE10574_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of mouse ES cells, Eed KO"'
GSE10574_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The Polycomb group (PcG) gene products mediate heritable silencing of developmental regulators in metazoans, participating in one of two distinct multimeric protein complexes, the Polycomb repressive complexes-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2).  PRC2 catalyses trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) which in turn is thought to provide a recruitment site for PRC1. Recent studies demonstrate that mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2A at lysine 119 is important in PcG mediated silencing with the core PRC1 component Ring1A/B functioning as the E3 ligase8.  PRC2 has been shown to share target genes with the core transcription network to maintain embryonic stem (ES) cells including Oct4 and Nanog. Here we identify an essential role for PRC1 in repressing developmental regulators in ES cells, and thereby in maintaining ES cell pluripotency. A significant proportion of the PRC1 target genes are also repressed by Oct4.  We demonstrate that engagement of PRC1 and PRC2 at target genes is Oct4-dependent and moreover that Ring1B interacts with Oct4. Collectively these results show that PcG complexes are instrumental in Oct4-dependent repression required to maintain pluripotency of ES cells. This study provides a first functional link between a core ES cell regulator and global epigenetic regulation of the genome."'
GSE10574_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"We generated constitutive Eed KO mouse ES cells and observed gene expression using Affymetrix MOE430.2 microarray."'
GSE10574_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"These results were compared with other KO cells of PRC1 proteins (Ring1A, Ring1B) and other proteins in our study."'
GSE10587_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in stria vascularis of mice lacking Slc26a4 and heterzygous controls before the onset of hearing."'
GSE10587_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Determination of differential expression of genes in the stria vascularis of  pendrin (Slc26a4) heterozygous and knockout  mice before the onset of hearing at postnatal day 10 (P10)."'
GSE10587_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"A total of Six samples  of stria vascularis RNA obtained from P10 mice were analyzed.  Triplicates from  pendrin (Slc26a4) heterozygous and knockout mice were run and analyzed."'
GSE10589_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of gene expression between the thyroid of mice lacking Slc26a4 and heterzygous controls."'
GSE10589_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Determination of differential expression of genes in the thyroid of pendrin (Slc26a4) heterozygous and knockout mice at a time point corresponding to maximal thyroid gland activity, postnatal day 15 (P15). "'
GSE10589_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"A total of Six samples of thyroid RNA obtained from P15 mice were analyzed. Triplicates from pendrin (Slc26a4) heterozygous and knockout mice were run and analyzed."'
GSE10610_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"A single spermatogonial stem cell can aquire pluripotentiality but that conversion into a pluripotent cell type is accompanied by loss of spermatogenic potential."'
GSE10628_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Foxj3 KO myoblast transcriptome data"'
GSE10628_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Myoblasts harvested from a postnatal day 2 WT and Foxj3 KO litter."'
GSE10634_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Aquaporin-11 knockout effect on kidney"'
GSE10634_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Aqp11+/– mice, originally generated in a 129/SvEvBrd background (4), were back-crossed 10–11 times to a C57/BL6 background.  Heterozygous mice were interbred to obtain knockout (Aqp11–/–) and wild-type littermates (Aqp11+/+).  The genotypes of offsprings were analyzed by PCR using tail DNA as a template.  All animal experiments were approved by the Animal Care Committee of the University of Tokyo.  One-week-old mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation.  Kidneys were rapidly excised on ice, washed in ice-cold phosphate-buffered saline, immersed in RNAlater (Ambion) and stored at –20°C.  Total RNA was isolated using TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen) and cleaned up using an RNeasy minikit with DNase treatment (Qiagen).  The RNA quality and quantity were examined by agarose-gel electrophoresis and a spectrophotometer (GE Healthcare).  Five pairs of Aqp11+/– mice were interbred, and we obtained 7 Aqp11+/+ and 9 Aqp11–/– offsprings.  Three micrograms of total RNA obtained from each kidney was individually reverse-transcribed, amplified, and labeled using GeneChip One-Cycle Target Labeling and Control Reagent package (Affymetrix) according to the manufacturer’s protocol.  Labeled cRNA was hybridized to GeneChip Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array (Affymetrix) (a total of 16 samples on 16 different arrays).  The arrays were washed, stained using Fluidics Station (Affymetrix), and then scanned with the GeneChip Scanner (Affymetrix).  Data collection was performed using GeneChip Operating Software (Affymetrix).  The quality of collected data was checked by scatter plot analysis."'
GSE10653_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In the postabsorptive state, the portal-drained viscera are a major energy consumer, but a comprehensive overview of the adaptive fasting response in the liver is lacking. Hence, gene-expression profiling, pathway, network and gene-set enrichment analysis and immunohistochemistry were carried out on mouse liver after 0, 12, 24, and 72 hours of fasting. "'
GSE10659_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"AFFYMETRIX ANALYSIS OF E9.5 RFC MOUSE KO EMBRYOS REVEALS ALTERED EXPR’N OF GENES IN THE CUBILIN-MEGALIN COMPLEX"'
GSE10659_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The reduced folate carrier (RFC1) is an integral membrane protein and facilitative anion exchanger that mediates delivery of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate into mammalian cells.  Adequate maternal-fetal transport of folate is necessary for normal embryogenesis.  Targeted inactivation of the murine RFC1 gene results in post-implantation embryo lethality, but daily folic acid supplementation of pregnant dams prolongs survival of homozygous embryos until mid-gestation.  At E10.5 RFC1-/- embryos are developmentally delayed relative to wildtype littermates, have multiple malformations, including neural tube defects, and die due to failure of chorioallantoic fusion.  The mesoderm is sparse and disorganized, and there is a marked absence of erythrocytes in yolk sac blood islands.  Affymetrix microarray analysis and quantitative RT-PCR validation of the relative gene expression profiles in E9.5 RFC1-/- vs. RFC1+/+ embryos indicates a dramatic downregulation of multiple genes involved in erythropoiesis, and upregulation of several genes that form the cubilin-megalin multiligand endocytic receptor complex.  Megalin protein expression disappears from the visceral yolk sac of RFC1-/- embryos, and cubilin protein is widely misexpressed.  Inactivation of RFC1 impacts the expression of several ligands and interacting proteins in the cubilin-amnionless-megalin complex that are involved in the maternal-fetal transport of folate, vitamin B12, and other nutrients, lipids and morphogens required for normal embryogenesis."'
GSE10659_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Comparison of RFC KO, wildtype normal embryos vs. RFC KO, nullizygous affected embryos"'
GSE10659_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: reduced folate carrier knockout, folate receptor, cubilin, megalin, embryos, gene expression, neural tube defect, chorioallantoic fusion"'
GSE10659_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"6 samples RFC KO mouse embryos, E9.5, folic acid treated: 3 Control, Wildtype, normal; 3 Affected, Nullizygous, CR/chorioallantoic defect; as paired-littermates with one normal and one affected embryo per set from each of three separate litters for RNA extraction and hybridization on Affymetrix microarrays."'
GSE10666_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The stability, localization and translation of mammalian mRNAs are largely determined by sequences in the 3' untranslated region (UTR).  Here, we describe a conserved program of increased upstream polyadenylation site usage following activation of primary murine CD4+ T lymphocytes.  This program, resulting in shorter 3' UTRs, is a characteristic of immune cell activation and strongly correlates with proliferation across diverse cell types and tissues.  Enforced expression of full-length 3' UTRs confers differences in protein expression that can in some cases be eliminated by deletion of predicted microRNA target sites in the variably included region. Together, our data indicate that polyadenylation site usage is coordinately regulated such that states of increased proliferation are associated with widespread reduction of 3' UTR-based regulation."'
GSE10682_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Most tumors are epithelial-derived, and although disruption of polarity and aberrant cellular junction formation is a poor prognosticator in human cancer, the role of polarity determinants in oncogenesis is poorly understood. Using in vivo selection, we identified a mammalian orthologue of the Drosophila polarity regulator crumbs as a gene whose loss of expression promotes tumor progression. Immortal baby mouse kidney epithelial (iBMK) cells selected in vivo to acquire tumorigenicity displayed dramatic repression of crumbs3 (crb3) expression associated with disruption of tight junction formation, apicobasal polarity, and contact-inhibited growth.  Restoration of crb3 expression restored junctions, polarity and contact inhibition, while suppressing migration and metastasis. These findings suggest a role for mammalian polarity determinants in suppressing tumorigenesis that may be analogous to the well-studied polarity tumor suppressor mechanisms in Drosophila."'
GSE10682_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Most tumors are epithelial-derived, and although disruption of polarity and aberrant cellular junction formation is a poor prognosticator in human cancer, the role of polarity determinants in oncogenesis is poorly understood. Using in vivo selection, we identified a mammalian orthologue of the Drosophila polarity regulator crumbs as a gene whose loss of expression promotes tumor progression. Immortal baby mouse kidney epithelial (iBMK) cells selected in vivo to acquire tumorigenicity displayed dramatic repression of crumbs3 (crb3) expression associated with disruption of tight junction formation, apicobasal polarity, and contact-inhibited growth.  Restoration of crb3 expression restored junctions, polarity and contact inhibition, while suppressing migration and metastasis. These findings suggest a role for mammalian polarity determinants in suppressing tumorigenesis that may be analogous to the well-studied polarity tumor suppressor mechanisms in Drosophila."'
GSE10740_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from  the colon of wild-type and Slc9a3 (NHE3)-deficient mice"'
GSE10740_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockout effect"'
GSE10740_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole colon was dissected from 6-8 week old NHE3-deficient mice and their wild-type littermates and total RNA isolated for microarray analysis using Affymetrix murine MOE430 2.0 arrays"'
GSE10741_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The Suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family of negative regulatory proteins are upregulated in response to several cytokines and pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), and suppress cellular signaling responses by binding receptor phosphotyrosine residues. Exposure of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) to 1D8 cells, a murine model of ovarian carcinoma, suppresses their ability to express CD40 and stimulate antigen specific responses in response to PAMPs, and in particular to poly I: C with the upregulated SOCS3 transcript and protein levels. The ectopic expression of SOCS3 in both the macrophage cell line RAW264.7 and BMDCs decreased signaling in response to both poly I:C and IFNα. Further, knockdown of SOCS3 transcripts significantly enhanced the responses of RAW264.7 and BMDCs to both poly I: C and IFNα. Immunoprecipitation and pull-down studies demonstrate that SOCS3 binds to the IFNα receptor TYK2. Since poly I: C triggers autocrine IFNα signaling, binding of SOCS3 to TYK2 may thereby suppress the activation of BMDCs by polyI:C and IFNα. Thus, elevated levels of SOCS3 in tumor-associated DCs may potentially resist the signals induced by TLR3 ligands and type I interferon to decrease DC activation via binding with IFNα receptor TyK2."'
GSE10745_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two mouse strains (KIKI and KO) were treated with compound 106 or control. Three tissues (Brain, Cerebellum, Heart) were examined in quadruplicate, for a total 48 arrays. "'
GSE10796_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"During development of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), neurons and glial cells (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) are generated from common neural precursor cells (NPCs). However, neurogenesis precedes gliogenesis, which normally commences at later stages of fetal telencephalic development. Astrocyte differentiation of mouse NPCs at embryonic day (E) 14.5 (relatively late gestation) is induced by activation of the transcription factor STAT3, whereas at E11.5 (mid-gestation) NPCs do not differentiate into astrocytes even when stimulated by STAT3-activating cytokines such as leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). This can be explained in part by the fact that astrocyte-specific gene promoters are highly methylated in NPCs at E11.5, but other mechanisms are also likely to play a role. We therefore sought to identify genes involved in the inhibition of astrocyte differentiation of NPCs at midgestation. We first examined gene expression profiles in E11.5 and E14.5 NPCs, using Affymetrix GeneChip analysis, applying the Percellome method to normalize gene expression level. We then conducted in situ hybridization analysis for selected genes found to be highly expressed in NPCs at midgestation. Among these genes, we found that N-myc and high mobility group AT-hook 2 (Hmga2) were highly expressed in the E11.5 but not the E14.5 ventricular zone of mouse brain, where NPCs reside. Transduction of N-myc and Hmga2 by retroviruses into E14.5 NPCs, which normally differentiate into astrocytes in response to LIF, resulted in suppression of astrocyte differentiation. However, sustained expression of N-myc and Hmga2 in E11.5 NPCs failed to maintain the hypermethylated status of an astrocyte-specific gene promoter. Taken together, our data suggest that astrocyte differentiation of NPCs is regulated not only by DNA methylation but also by genes whose expression is controlled spatio-temporally during brain development."'
GSE10805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"whole lungs: TAZ-deficient mice and their littermates"'
GSE10805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"TAZ-deficient mice have the abnormalities in the lung development. We expect the comparison of the gene expression profiles of TAZ-deficient and wild-type lungs would reveal the underlying mechanisms."'
GSE10807_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiling of Atm deficient murine thymic lymphoma"'
GSE10807_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To find genes deregulated in the pathogenisis of T-cells in Atm deficient mice, we performed expression profiling of Atm deficient thymic lymphomas, wildtype thymi and Atm deficient thymi without macroscopic enlargement, representing an intermediate stage in the process of tumorigenisis."'
GSE10807_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"To evaluate differential gene expression of Atm deficient thymic lymphoma we performed microarray based expression profiling of 8 Atm deficient thymic lymphomas, 6 wildtype thymi, 1 thymus of an Atm heterozygous mouse and 18 thymi of Atm deficient mice without  macroscopic enlargement."'
GSE10817_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"MLL5 is a novel trithorax group gene and a candidate tumor suppressor gene located within a 2.5 Mb interval of chromosome band 7q22 that is frequently deleted in human myeloid malignancy.  Here we show that Mll5 is required for normal hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) homeostasis. Inactivation of the Mll5 gene in mice results in reduced cellularity of the long-term HSC compartment, which correlates with functional impairment of long-term repopulation potential under competitive conditions.  Bone marrow cells from Mll5-deficient mice were defective in spleen colony-forming assays, and the mutant mice showed enhanced susceptibility to 5-Fluorouracil-induced myelosuppression.  Heterozygous and homozygous Mll5 mutant mice did not spontaneously develop hematologic cancers, and loss of Mll5 did not alter the phenotype of a fatal myeloprolferative disorder induced by oncogenic Kras in vivo.  Collectively, the data reveal an important role for Mll5 in HSC homeostasis, and provide a basis for further studies to explore its role in leukemogenesis."'
GSE10817_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"MLL5 is a novel trithorax group gene and a candidate tumor suppressor gene located within a 2.5 Mb interval of chromosome band 7q22 that is frequently deleted in human myeloid malignancy.  Here we show that Mll5 is required for normal hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) homeostasis. Inactivation of the Mll5 gene in mice results in reduced cellularity of the long-term HSC compartment, which correlates with functional impairment of long-term repopulation potential under competitive conditions.  Bone marrow cells from Mll5-deficient mice were defective in spleen colony-forming assays, and the mutant mice showed enhanced susceptibility to 5-Fluorouracil-induced myelosuppression.  Heterozygous and homozygous Mll5 mutant mice did not spontaneously develop hematologic cancers, and loss of Mll5 did not alter the phenotype of a fatal myeloprolferative disorder induced by oncogenic Kras in vivo.  Collectively, the data reveal an important role for Mll5 in HSC homeostasis, and provide a basis for further studies to explore its role in leukemogenesis."'
GSE10823-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"TCE is a non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogen in mouse, but not in rat or human. Extrapolation of data from laboratory animals to humans is difficult due to species-specific differences. To identify molecular pathways and biological changes responsible for species-specific differences in hepatocarcinogenesis, we analyzed gene expression profiles of livers from B6C3F1 mice and SD rats administered TCE by oral gavage once or repeatedly every 24 hrs for 14 days. Gene expression analysis revealed distinct clusters of transcriptional profiles in single- and repeated-dose mice and rats.  Pathway analysis showed differences in biological pathways between single- and repeated-dose mice and rats. Activation of the MAPK signaling cascade and ubiquitin-proteasome inhibitory function, as well as inhibition of TGF-beta signaling, were specific to mice and suggest a role in hepatocyte proliferation. Although pathological analysis showed no evidence of apoptosis, gene expression analysis revealed changes in apoptosis-related genes. In addition to the previously reported suppression of apoptosis, results in repeated-dose mice showed that toxicity induced by TCE in turn induces apoptosis."'
GSE10848_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene knockout"'
GSE10849_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene knockout"'
GSE10854-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Previously, we have demonstrated that the recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying the kringle domain 1 of hepatocyte growth factor (rAAV-HGFK1) gene is a potential anti-angiogenic approach for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and exerts direct inhibition effects on tumor cells. Here, using genome-wide expression profiling technology, coupled with RT-PCR validation, we investigated the differentially expressed genes and proposed the mechanisms involved in HGFK1 anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor cell signaling networks. "'
GSE10869_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Our goal was to analyze how loss of CaMKIV will affect acitivity-regulated transcription induced by strong stimulation, i.e. cocaine."'
GSE10870_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Our goal was to analyze how loss of SRF will affect acitivity-regulated transcription induced by strong stimulation, i.e. cocaine."'
GSE10895_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Expression study of liver smaples of 2-days old  Mfp2 knockout mice as compared to wild type"'
GSE10895_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Study on gene expression in multifunctional protein 2 deficient mice. Liver samples of two days old mice in normal conditions are used. In total 8 arrays were hybridized corresponding to 4 KO mice and 4 WT mice Results: Cholesterol synthesis is induced and ppar alpha targets also differentially expressed between KO and WT."'
GSE10895_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Study on gene expression in multifunctional protein 2 deficient mice. Liver samples of two days old mice in normal conditions are used. In total 8 arrays were hybridized corresponding to 4 KO mice and 4 WT mice Results: Cholesterol synthesis is induced and ppar alpha targets also differentially expressed between KO and WT."'
GSE10895_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Liver samples, 4 KO mice and 4 WT mice"'
GSE10902_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The LIM-only protein FHL2 acts as a transcriptional modulator that positively or negatively regulates multiple signaling pathways. We recently reported that FHL2 cooperates with CBP/p300 in the activation of ß-catenin/TCF target gene cyclin D1. In this paper, we demonstrate that FHL2 is associated with the cyclin D1 promoter at the TCF/CRE site, providing evidence that cyclin D1 is a direct target of FHL2. We show that deficiency of FHL2 greatly reduces the proliferative capacity of spontaneously immortalized mouse fibroblasts which is associated with decreased expression of cyclin D1 and p16INK4a, and hypophosphorylation of Rb. Reexpression of FHL2 in FHL2-null fibroblasts efficiently restores cyclin D1 levels and cell proliferative capacity, indicating that FHL2 is critical for cyclin D1 activation and cell growth. Moreover, ectopic cyclin D1 expression is sufficient to override growth inhibition of immortalized FHL2-null fibroblasts. Gene expression profiling revealed that FHL2 deficiency triggers a broad change of the cell cycle program that is associated with downregulation of several G1/S and G2/M cyclins, E2F transcription factors and DNA replication machinery, thus correlating with reduced cell proliferation. This change also involves downregulation of the negative cell cycle regulators, particularly INK4 inhibitors, which could counteract the decreased expression of cyclins, allowing cells to grow. Our study illustrates that FHL2 can act on different aspects of the cell cycle program to finely regulate cell proliferation."'
GSE10902_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The LIM-only protein FHL2 acts as a transcriptional modulator that positively or negatively regulates multiple signaling pathways. We recently reported that FHL2 cooperates with CBP/p300 in the activation of ß-catenin/TCF target gene cyclin D1. In this paper, we demonstrate that FHL2 is associated with the cyclin D1 promoter at the TCF/CRE site, providing evidence that cyclin D1 is a direct target of FHL2. We show that deficiency of FHL2 greatly reduces the proliferative capacity of spontaneously immortalized mouse fibroblasts which is associated with decreased expression of cyclin D1 and p16INK4a, and hypophosphorylation of Rb. Reexpression of FHL2 in FHL2-null fibroblasts efficiently restores cyclin D1 levels and cell proliferative capacity, indicating that FHL2 is critical for cyclin D1 activation and cell growth. Moreover, ectopic cyclin D1 expression is sufficient to override growth inhibition of immortalized FHL2-null fibroblasts. Gene expression profiling revealed that FHL2 deficiency triggers a broad change of the cell cycle program that is associated with downregulation of several G1/S and G2/M cyclins, E2F transcription factors and DNA replication machinery, thus correlating with reduced cell proliferation. This change also involves downregulation of the negative cell cycle regulators, particularly INK4 inhibitors, which could counteract the decreased expression of cyclins, allowing cells to grow. Our study illustrates that FHL2 can act on different aspects of the cell cycle program to finely regulate cell proliferation."'
GSE10904_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from wildtype and alb/cre liver-conditional Pdss2 knockout mutant mice"'
GSE10904_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Utilizing M. musculus as a model of mitochondrial dysfunction provides insight into cellular adaptations which occur as a consequence of genetic alterations causative of human disease.  We characterized genome-wide expression profiles of liver-conditional knockout mice for Pdss2 compared with loxP controls."'
GSE10941_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Confirmation of the gene expression pattern in Mxi1-deficient mouse (time course)"'
GSE10941_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"For final aim to completes network map between gene that is concerned in cystogenesis, verifies meaning genes connected with cyst formation analyzing gene pattern in time-dependent Mxi1 KO mouse that have phenotype of polycystic kidney disease. Monitoring meaning genes through microarray analysis, and confirm the function of these genes. Also, find pathway including meaning genes and new pathway related with PKD. Completes network map concerned in time-dependent cystogenesis through integrates knowing pathway and predicting pathway. Develope diagnostic of cyst disease and cure target through such completed network map, and wish to clear new role of cyst formation connection gene through in vivo model and examine closely control system of cyst formation mechanism. "'
GSE10962_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Herpes simplex virus mutants lacking the vhs gene are severely attenuated in animal models of pathogenesis and exhibit reduced growth in primary cell culture. As a result of these properties vhs-deleted virus have been proposed as live-attenuated viruses. Despite these findings and their implications for vacccines, the mechanisms by which vhs promotes infection in cell culture and in vivo are not understood. In this study we demonstrate that vhs-deficent viruses replicate to reduced levels in interferon(IFN)- primed cells. Furthermore, vhs-defective viruses induce increased levels of IFNβ and IFNβ-stimulated genes, and increased levels of eIF2α phosphorylation in infected cells. In addition, we demonstrate a generalized over-expression of viral RNAs following infection with a vhs-deficient virus. This suggests increased expression of IFN pathway inducing double stranded RNA, a potent pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP). Together these data show that vhs likely functions to reduce innate immune responses and thereby acts as critical determinant of viral pathogenesis."'
GSE10962_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Herpes simplex virus mutants lacking the vhs gene are severely attenuated in animal models of pathogenesis and exhibit reduced growth in primary cell culture. As a result of these properties vhs-deleted virus have been proposed as live-attenuated viruses. Despite these findings and their implications for vacccines, the mechanisms by which vhs promotes infection in cell culture and in vivo are not understood. In this study we demonstrate that vhs-deficent viruses replicate to reduced levels in interferon(IFN)- primed cells. Furthermore, vhs-defective viruses induce increased levels of IFNβ and IFNβ-stimulated genes, and increased levels of eIF2α phosphorylation in infected cells. In addition, we demonstrate a generalized over-expression of viral RNAs following infection with a vhs-deficient virus. This suggests increased expression of IFN pathway inducing double stranded RNA, a potent pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP). Together these data show that vhs likely functions to reduce innate immune responses and thereby acts as critical determinant of viral pathogenesis."'
GSE10962_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Time course (1,3,6,9 & 12h) of HSV infected mouse embryo fibroblasts.  Wild type (KOS) virus is co-hybridized with vhs null virus (NHB).  Each time-point is hybridized in quadruplicate."'
GSE10989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data of cystic renal epithelial tissue from mice deficient for fumarate hydratase."'
GSE10989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Fumarate hydratase (FH) mutations cause hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC). We have conditionally inactivated the murine ortholog (Fh1) in renal tubular epithelial cells in order to generate an in vivo model of HLRCC. Fh1 knockout mice recapitulates important aspects of HLRCC including the development of renal cysts that overexpress hypoxia inducible factor alpha (Hifa) and Hif-target genes."'
GSE10989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene  expression underlying cyst development in Fh1 knockout mice and identified distinct classes of up-regulated genes during this process."'
GSE10989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene expression, comparison (wild-type n=3 vs knockout n=3)"'
GSE10989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Renal epithelial tissue was macro-dissected from Fh1 knockout mice and sex-matched litter mate control disease-free animals for RNA extraction and hybridization on Affymetrix microarrays."'
GSE11005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Pneumocystis is a pathogen of immunocompromised hosts but can also infect healthy hosts, in whom infection is rapidly controlled and cleared. To better understand the immune mechanisms contributing to clearance of infection, microarray methods were used to examine differential gene expression in the lungs of  C57BL/6 and CD40 ligand knock-out (CD40L-KO) mice over time following exposure to Pneumocystis. Immuncompetent C57BL/6 mice, which control and clear infection efficiently, showed a robust response to infection characterized by the upregulation of 349 primarily immune-response associated genes.  Temporal changes in the expression of these genes suggested that there was an early (week 2) primarily innate response, that waned without controlling infection; this were followed by primarily adaptive immune responses that peaked at week 5 and successfully cleared the infection. In conjunction with the latter, there was an increased expression of B cell associated (immunoglobulin) genes at week 6 that persisted through 11 weeks.   In contrast, CD40L-KO mice, which are highly susceptible to developing severe Pneumocystis pneumonia, showed essentially no upregulation of immune-response associated genes at days 35 to 75. Immunohistochemical staining supported these observations by demonstrating an increase in CD4+, CD68+, and CD19+ cells in C57BL/6 but not CD40L-KO mice. Thus, the healthy host demonstrates a robust biphasic response to infection by Pneumocystis; CD40 ligand is an essential upstream regulator of the adaptive immune responses that efficiently control infection and prevent development of progressive pneumonia."'
GSE11005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Pneumocystis is a pathogen of immunocompromised hosts but can also infect healthy hosts, in whom infection is rapidly controlled and cleared. To better understand the immune mechanisms contributing to clearance of infection, microarray methods were used to examine differential gene expression in the lungs of  C57BL/6 and CD40 ligand knock-out (CD40L-KO) mice over time following exposure to Pneumocystis. Immuncompetent C57BL/6 mice, which control and clear infection efficiently, showed a robust response to infection characterized by the upregulation of 349 primarily immune-response associated genes.  Temporal changes in the expression of these genes suggested that there was an early (week 2) primarily innate response, that waned without controlling infection; this were followed by primarily adaptive immune responses that peaked at week 5 and successfully cleared the infection. In conjunction with the latter, there was an increased expression of B cell associated (immunoglobulin) genes at week 6 that persisted through 11 weeks.   In contrast, CD40L-KO mice, which are highly susceptible to developing severe Pneumocystis pneumonia, showed essentially no upregulation of immune-response associated genes at days 35 to 75. Immunohistochemical staining supported these observations by demonstrating an increase in CD4+, CD68+, and CD19+ cells in C57BL/6 but not CD40L-KO mice. Thus, the healthy host demonstrates a robust biphasic response to infection by Pneumocystis; CD40 ligand is an essential upstream regulator of the adaptive immune responses that efficiently control infection and prevent development of progressive pneumonia."'
GSE11005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Time course response Pneumocystis murina infection wild type versus CD40L-KO mice"'
GSE11005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"In experiment 1, C57BL/6 and CD40L-KO mice were co-housed in 2 cages; one cage was exposed to a P. murina-infected seeder, while the second was unexposed. Mice (3 per group) were sacrificed at day 32. Because the initial study demonstrated very little change in gene expression in CD40L-KO mice, only C57BL/6 mice were used for experiments 2 and 3. In Experiment 2,  three cages (10 animals/cage) were set up: 2 cages were exposed to P. murina, and one was unexposed. Animals (5 per cage) were sacrificed at days 34 and 41. In Experiment 3, which focused on gene expression early after exposure to P. murina, five cages (9-10 animals/cage) were set up, of which 3 were exposed and 2 were unexposed. Animals (1-3 per cage) were sacrificed at days 7, 14 and 21 of exposure. Experiment 4 was designed to verify the initial results in CD40L-KO mice, and included 5 unexposed controls and 4 mice exposed for  35 days."'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Effect of 5HTT knockout and heterozygosity in whole mouse lung"'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Rationale: While modulation of the serotonin transporter (5HTT) has shown to be a risk factor for pulmonary arterial hypertension for almost 40 years, there is a lack of in vivo data about the broad molecular effects of pulmonary inhibition of 5HTT. Previous studies have suggested effects on inflammation, proliferation, and vasoconstriction. The goal of this study was to determine which of these were supported by alterations in gene expression in serotonin transporter knockout mice. Methods: Eight week old normoxic mice with a 5-HTT knock-out (5HTT-/-) and their heterozygote(5HTT+/-) or wild-type(5HTT+/+) littermates had right ventricular systolic pressure(RVSP) assessed, lungs collected for RNA, pooled, and used in duplicate in Affymetrix array analysis. Representative genes were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR and western blot. Results: RVSP was normal in all groups. Only 124 genes were reliably changed between 5HTT-/- and 5HTT+/+ mice. More than half of these were either involved in inflammatory response or muscle function and organization; in addition, some matrix, heme oxygenase, developmental, and energy metabolism genes showed altered expression. Quantitative RT-PCR for examples from each major group confirmed changes seen by array, with an intermediate level in 5HTT+/- mice. Conclusions: These results for the first time show the in vivo effects of 5HTT knockout in lungs, and show that many of the downstream mechanisms suggested by cell culture and ex vivo experiments are also operational in vivo.  This suggests that the effect of 5HTT on pulmonary vascular function arises from its impact on several systems, including vasoreactivity, proliferation, and immune function."'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Rationale: While modulation of the serotonin transporter (5HTT) has shown to be a risk factor for pulmonary arterial hypertension for almost 40 years, there is a lack of in vivo data about the broad molecular effects of pulmonary inhibition of 5HTT. Previous studies have suggested effects on inflammation, proliferation, and vasoconstriction. The goal of this study was to determine which of these were supported by alterations in gene expression in serotonin transporter knockout mice. Methods: Eight week old normoxic mice with a 5-HTT knock-out (5HTT-/-) and their heterozygote(5HTT+/-) or wild-type(5HTT+/+) littermates had right ventricular systolic pressure(RVSP) assessed, lungs collected for RNA, pooled, and used in duplicate in Affymetrix array analysis. Representative genes were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR and western blot. Results: RVSP was normal in all groups. Only 124 genes were reliably changed between 5HTT-/- and 5HTT+/+ mice. More than half of these were either involved in inflammatory response or muscle function and organization; in addition, some matrix, heme oxygenase, developmental, and energy metabolism genes showed altered expression. Quantitative RT-PCR for examples from each major group confirmed changes seen by array, with an intermediate level in 5HTT+/- mice. Conclusions: These results for the first time show the in vivo effects of 5HTT knockout in lungs, and show that many of the downstream mechanisms suggested by cell culture and ex vivo experiments are also operational in vivo.  This suggests that the effect of 5HTT on pulmonary vascular function arises from its impact on several systems, including vasoreactivity, proliferation, and immune function."'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Rationale: While modulation of the serotonin transporter (5HTT) has shown to be a risk factor for pulmonary arterial hypertension for almost 40 years, there is a lack of in vivo data about the broad molecular effects of pulmonary inhibition of 5HTT. Previous studies have suggested effects on inflammation, proliferation, and vasoconstriction. The goal of this study was to determine which of these were supported by alterations in gene expression in serotonin transporter knockout mice. Methods: Eight week old normoxic mice with a 5-HTT knock-out (5HTT-/-) and their heterozygote(5HTT+/-) or wild-type(5HTT+/+) littermates had right ventricular systolic pressure(RVSP) assessed, lungs collected for RNA, pooled, and used in duplicate in Affymetrix array analysis. Representative genes were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR and western blot. Results: RVSP was normal in all groups. Only 124 genes were reliably changed between 5HTT-/- and 5HTT+/+ mice. More than half of these were either involved in inflammatory response or muscle function and organization; in addition, some matrix, heme oxygenase, developmental, and energy metabolism genes showed altered expression. Quantitative RT-PCR for examples from each major group confirmed changes seen by array, with an intermediate level in 5HTT+/- mice. Conclusions: These results for the first time show the in vivo effects of 5HTT knockout in lungs, and show that many of the downstream mechanisms suggested by cell culture and ex vivo experiments are also operational in vivo.  This suggests that the effect of 5HTT on pulmonary vascular function arises from its impact on several systems, including vasoreactivity, proliferation, and immune function."'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of whole lung total RNA from pools of wild-type, heterozygote, and knockout 5HTT mice to determine the pulmonary effects of loss of 5HTT expression."'
GSE11035_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of whole lung total RNA from pools of wild-type, heterozygote, and knockout 5HTT mice to determine the pulmonary effects of loss of 5HTT expression."'
GSE11039_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Expression Data from wild type and E2F4 null MEFs"'
GSE11039_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We have used primary MEFs derived from wild type and E2F4 null mice growing asynchrounously in serum to generate a signature for E2F4 pathway activation.  10 wild type and 10 E2F4 null samples were each assayed using the Affymetrics Mouse Genome 430A 2.0 array."'
GSE11039_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Primary MEFs from wild type and E2F4 null mice"'
GSE11039_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"MEFs from 3 wild type embryos on a total of 10 cultutes were grown and harvested for RNA.  MEFS from 5 E2F4 null embryos were grown on a total of 10 cultures."'
GSE11053_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Confirmation of the gene expression pattern in Mxi1-deficient mouse"'
GSE11053_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"For final aim to completes network map between gene that is concerned in cystogenesis, verifies meaning genes connected with cyst formation analyzing gene pattern in Mxi1 KO mouse that have phenotype of polycystic kidney disease. Monitoring meaning genes through microarray analysis, and confirm the function of these genes. Also, find pathway including meaning genes and new pathway related with PKD. Completes network map concerned in cystogenesis through integrates knowing pathway and predicting pathway. Develope diagnostic of cyst disease and cure target through such completed network map, and wish to clear new role of cyst formation connection gene through in vivo model and examine closely control system of cyst formation mechanism. "'
GSE11098-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Livers from adult wildtype, Fah or Fah, p21 knockout mice were analyzed either after continuous treatment (ON) with NTBC or after NTBC withdrawal for 14 days (OFF)."'
GSE11098-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Livers from adult wildtype, Fah or Fah, p21 knockout mice were analyzed either after continuous treatment (ON) with NTBC or after NTBC withdrawal for 14 days (OFF)."'
GSE11112_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'haploinsufficiency' in '!Series_summary	"The Forkhead Box f1 (Foxf1) transcriptional factor (previously known as HFH-8 or Freac-1) is expressed in endothelial and smooth muscle cells in the embryonic and adult lung. To assess effects of Foxf1 during lung injury, we used CCl4 injury model.  Foxf1+/- mice developed severe airway obstruction and bronchial edema, associated with increased numbers of pulmonary mast cells and increased mast cell degranulation following injury.  Pulmonary inflammation in Foxf1+/- mice was associated with diminished expression of Foxf1, increased mast cell tryptase and increased expression of CXCL12, the latter being essential for mast cell migration and chemotaxis.  Foxf1 haploinsufficiency caused pulmonary mastocytosis and enhanced pulmonary inflammation following chemically-induced lung injury, indicating an important role for Foxf1 in the pathogenesis of pulmonary inflammatory responses."'
GSE11116_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"The low expressing Ttr::Fv2E-Perk transgene (#58) was bred into the Atf4 knockout strain and the derivative compound heterozygous mice (in the mixed FvB/n; Swiss Webster background) were backcrossed to the Atf4+/- parental stock and Ttr::Fv2E-PERK positive siblings with Atf4+/+ and  Atf4-/- genetypes were analyzed."'
GSE11120_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"From preliminary experiments, HSP70 deficient MEF cells display moderate thermotolerance to a severe heatshock of 45.5 degrees after a mild preshock at 43 degrees, even in the absence of hsp70 protein. We would like to determine which genes in these cells are being activated to account for this thermotolerance."'
GSE11120_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: thermal stress, heat shock response, knockout, cell culture, hsp70"'
GSE11120_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two cell lines are analyzed - hsp70 knockout and hsp70 rescue cells. 6 microarrays from the (-/-)knockout cells are analyzed (3 Pretreated vs 3 unheated controls). For the (+/+) rescue cells, 4 microarrays are used (2 pretreated and 2 unheated controls). Cells were plated at 3k/well in a 96 well plate, covered with a gas permeable sealer and heat shocked at 43degrees for 30 minutes at the 20 hr time point. The RNA was harvested at 3hrs after heat treatment."'
GSE11123_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Stress is a powerful modulator of neuroendocrine, behavioral and immunological functions. After 4.5 days of repeated combined acoustic and restraint stress as a murine model of chronic psychological stress severe metabolic dysregulations became detectable in female BALB/c mice. Stress-induced alterations of metabolic processes that were found in a hepatic mRNA expression profiling were verified by in vivo analyses. Repeatedly stressed mice developed a hypermetabolic syndrome with severe loss of lean body mass, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, increased amino acid turn-over, and acidosis. This was associated with hypercortisolism, hyperleptinemia, insulin resistance, and hypothyroidism. In contrast, after a single acute stress exposure changes in expression of metabolic genes were much less pronounced and predominantly confined to gluconeogenesis, probably indicating that metabolic disturbances might be initiated already early but will only manifest in repeatedly stressed mice .Thus, in our murine model, repeated stress caused severe metabolic dysregulations leading to a drastic reduction of the individual's energy reserves. Under such circumstances stress may further reduce the ability to cope with new stressors such as infection or cancer."'
GSE11125_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Stress is a powerful modulator of neuroendocrine, behavioral and immunological functions. After 4.5 days of repeated combined acoustic and restraint stress as a murine model of chronic psychological stress severe metabolic dysregulations became detectable in female BALB/c mice. Stress-induced alterations of metabolic processes that were found in a hepatic mRNA expression profiling were verified by in vivo analyses. Repeatedly stressed mice developed a hypermetabolic syndrome with severe loss of lean body mass, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, increased amino acid turn-over, and acidosis. This was associated with hypercortisolism, hyperleptinemia, insulin resistance, and hypothyroidism. In contrast, after a single acute stress exposure changes in expression of metabolic genes were much less pronounced and predominantly confined to gluconeogenesis, probably indicating that metabolic disturbances might be initiated already early but will only manifest in repeatedly stressed mice .Thus, in our murine model, repeated stress caused severe metabolic dysregulations leading to a drastic reduction of the individual's energy reserves. Under such circumstances stress may further reduce the ability to cope with new stressors such as infection or cancer."'
GSE11126-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Stress is a powerful modulator of neuroendocrine, behavioral and immunological functions. After 4.5 days of repeated combined acoustic and restraint stress as a murine model of chronic psychological stress severe metabolic dysregulations became detectable in female BALB/c mice. Stress-induced alterations of metabolic processes that were found in a hepatic mRNA expression profiling were verified by in vivo analyses. Repeatedly stressed mice developed a hypermetabolic syndrome with severe loss of lean body mass, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, increased amino acid turn-over, and acidosis. This was associated with hypercortisolism, hyperleptinemia, insulin resistance, and hypothyroidism. In contrast, after a single acute stress exposure changes in expression of metabolic genes were much less pronounced and predominantly confined to gluconeogenesis, probably indicating that metabolic disturbances might be initiated already early but will only manifest in repeatedly stressed mice .Thus, in our murine model, repeated stress caused severe metabolic dysregulations leading to a drastic reduction of the individual's energy reserves. Under such circumstances stress may further reduce the ability to cope with new stressors such as infection or cancer."'
GSE11126-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Stress is a powerful modulator of neuroendocrine, behavioral and immunological functions. After 4.5 days of repeated combined acoustic and restraint stress as a murine model of chronic psychological stress severe metabolic dysregulations became detectable in female BALB/c mice. Stress-induced alterations of metabolic processes that were found in a hepatic mRNA expression profiling were verified by in vivo analyses. Repeatedly stressed mice developed a hypermetabolic syndrome with severe loss of lean body mass, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, increased amino acid turn-over, and acidosis. This was associated with hypercortisolism, hyperleptinemia, insulin resistance, and hypothyroidism. In contrast, after a single acute stress exposure changes in expression of metabolic genes were much less pronounced and predominantly confined to gluconeogenesis, probably indicating that metabolic disturbances might be initiated already early but will only manifest in repeatedly stressed mice .Thus, in our murine model, repeated stress caused severe metabolic dysregulations leading to a drastic reduction of the individual's energy reserves. Under such circumstances stress may further reduce the ability to cope with new stressors such as infection or cancer."'
GSE11139_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Elucidating a normal function of huntingtin by analysis of huntingtin-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts"'
GSE11139_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin (Htt) protein is a cause of Huntington’s disease (HD).  Htt is an essential gene as  deletion of the mouse Htt gene homolog (Hdh) is embryonic lethal in mice. Therefore, in addition to elucidating the mechanisms responsible for polyQ-mediated pathology, it is also important to understand the normal function of Htt protein for both basic biology and for HD. To systematically search for a mouse Htt function, we took advantage of the Hdh +/- and Hdh-floxed mice and generated four mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cells lines which contain a single copy of the Hdh gene (Hdh-HET) and four MEF lines in which the Hdh gene was deleted (Hdh-KO).   The function of Htt in calcium (Ca2+) signaling was analyzed in Ca2+ imaging experiments with generated cell lines.   We found that the cytoplasmic Ca2+ spikes resulting from the activation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (InsP3R) and the ensuing mitochondrial Ca2+ signals were suppressed in the Hdh-KO cells when compared to Hdh-HET cells.  Furthermore,  in experiments with permeabilized cells we found that the InsP3-sensitivity of Ca2+ mobilization from endoplasmic reticulum was reduced in Hdh-KO cells.  These results indicated that Htt plays an important role in modulating InsP3R-mediated Ca2+ signaling.  To further evaluate function of Htt, we performed genome-wide transcription profiling of generated  Hdh-HET and Hdh-KO cells by microarray.  Our results revealed that 106 unique transcripts were downregulated by more than two-fold with p < 0.05 and 173 unique transcripts were upregulated at least two-fold with p < 0.05 in Hdh-KO cells when compared to Hdh-HET cells.  The microarray results were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR for a number of affected transcripts.  Several signaling pathways affected by Hdh gene deletion were identified from annotation of the microarray results.   The unbiased approach used in our study provides novel and unique information about the normal function of Htt in cells, which may contribute to our understanding and treatment of HD."'
GSE11139_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"The polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin (Htt) protein is a cause of Huntington’s disease (HD).  Htt is an essential gene as  deletion of the mouse Htt gene homolog (Hdh) is embryonic lethal in mice. Therefore, in addition to elucidating the mechanisms responsible for polyQ-mediated pathology, it is also important to understand the normal function of Htt protein for both basic biology and for HD. To systematically search for a mouse Htt function, we took advantage of the Hdh +/- and Hdh-floxed mice and generated four mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cells lines which contain a single copy of the Hdh gene (Hdh-HET) and four MEF lines in which the Hdh gene was deleted (Hdh-KO).   The function of Htt in calcium (Ca2+) signaling was analyzed in Ca2+ imaging experiments with generated cell lines.   We found that the cytoplasmic Ca2+ spikes resulting from the activation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (InsP3R) and the ensuing mitochondrial Ca2+ signals were suppressed in the Hdh-KO cells when compared to Hdh-HET cells.  Furthermore,  in experiments with permeabilized cells we found that the InsP3-sensitivity of Ca2+ mobilization from endoplasmic reticulum was reduced in Hdh-KO cells.  These results indicated that Htt plays an important role in modulating InsP3R-mediated Ca2+ signaling.  To further evaluate function of Htt, we performed genome-wide transcription profiling of generated  Hdh-HET and Hdh-KO cells by microarray.  Our results revealed that 106 unique transcripts were downregulated by more than two-fold with p < 0.05 and 173 unique transcripts were upregulated at least two-fold with p < 0.05 in Hdh-KO cells when compared to Hdh-HET cells.  The microarray results were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR for a number of affected transcripts.  Several signaling pathways affected by Hdh gene deletion were identified from annotation of the microarray results.   The unbiased approach used in our study provides novel and unique information about the normal function of Htt in cells, which may contribute to our understanding and treatment of HD."'
GSE11139_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"we generate four Hdh-HET MEF cell lines and four Hdh-KO MEF cell lines, and performed genome-wide transcription profiling of generated  Hdh-HET and Hdh-KO cells by microarray."'
GSE11141_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The lack of axonal growth after injury in the adult central nervous system (CNS) is partly due to the presence of growth-inhibitory molecules associated with myelin and the intrinsic growth-state of the injured neurons. To date, three inhibitors have been identified in myelin: Myelin- Associated Glycoprotein (MAG), Nogo A, and Oligodendrocyte-Myelin glycoprotein (OMgp). These three proteins all appear to be located in the periaxonal surface of the myelin membrane placing them in an optimal location to mediate axon-glial interaction.  In addition, the three proteins have been shown to bind the same neuronal receptor, known as the Nogo-66 receptor (NgR).  It has been hypothesized that inhibition of NgR may be a strategy to increase regeneration, plasticity and functional recovery of the lesioned central nervous system. Strong NgR mRNA expression is observed in the hippocampal pyramidal cell layers (CA1-3) and the granular layer of the dentate gyrus.  It has been shown that animals exposed to entorhinal lesions show a biphasic regulation of NgR in the hippocampus, suggesting a tightly regulated mechanism mediated by this receptor.  We have access to a transgenic model to over-express NgR in forebrain hippocampal neurons. Preliminary results have shown a phenotypic response in behavior and some molecular markers, as result of NgR overexpression.  Knowledge of what genes are reacting in this novel transgenic model may provide insights into what pathways are affected by NgR to control synaptic plasticity in normal animals and during injury."'
GSE11147_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Post-transcriptional mechanisms play an important role in the control of gene expression. RNA-binding proteins are key players in the post-transcriptional control of many neural genes and they participate in multiple processes, from RNA splicing and mRNA transport to mRNA stability and translation. Our laboratory has developed the first mouse model overexpressing a RNA-binding protein, the ELAV-like protein HuD, in the CNS under the control of the CaMKinII alpha promoter. Initial behavioral characterization of the mice revealed that they had significant learning deficits together with abnormalities in prepulse inhibition (PPI). At the molecular level, we found that the expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43, one of the targets of HuD, was increased in the hippocampus of HuD transgenic mice. To characterize these mice further and to evaluate the utility of these animals in understanding human diseases, we propose to use DNA microarray methods."'
GSE11149_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Cranial neural crest cells (NCC) give rise to the majority of the cartilage, bone, connective tissue, and sensory ganglia in the head, and also participate in the remodeling of the cardiac outflow tract and pharyngeal arch arteries during cardiovascular development. Our preliminary results show that targeted deletion of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) in murine NCC results in cardiovascular and craniofacial alterations, resembling human congenital heart diseases The objective of this project is to elucidate the underlying mechanisms by which FAK mediates NCC function during development."'
GSE11149_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"FAK is a tyrosine kinase that transduces integrin and growth factor signaling pathways. Abnormal growth factor signaling leads to cardiovascular malformations caused by deficient cardiac NCC function. However, a direct role for FAK in NCC morphogenesis has not been demonstrated. We will test the hypothesis that FAK is a downstream target of essential growth factor signaling in cranial neural crest cells during development."'
GSE11149_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"1) Generate E11.5 mouse embryos that are either control (FAK+/flox) or NCC specific FAK knockout (Wnt1Cre;FAKflox/flox). 2) Determine genotype by PCR. 3) Dissect head and torax from the different genotypes. 4) Obtain NCC from dissected tissue by magnetic cell sorting using p75 antibody. 5) Prepare total RNA from speciments. We will pool the NCC from 3 different embryos of the same genotype, and send total RNA to TGEN for probe preparation, hybridization and array result analysis."'
GSE11165_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Epithelial organs including the lung are known to possess regenerative abilities through activation of endogenous stem cell populations but the molecular pathways regulating stem cell expansion and regeneration are not well understood.  Here we show that Gata6 regulates the temporal appearance and number of bronchioalveolar stem cells (BASCs) in the lung leading to the precocious appearance of BASCs and concurrent loss in epithelial differentiation in Gata6 null lung epithelium.  This expansion of BASCs is the result of a dramatic increase in canonical Wnt signaling in lung epithelium upon loss of Gata6. Expression of the non-canonical Wnt receptor Fzd2 is down-regulated in Gata6 mutants and increased Fzd2 or decreased β-catenin expression rescues, in part, the lung epithelial defects in Gata6 mutants.  During lung epithelial regeneration, we show that canonical Wnt signaling is activated in the niche containing BASCs and forced activation of Wnt signaling leads to a dramatic increase in BASC numbers.  Moreover, Gata6 is required for proper lung epithelial regeneration and postnatal loss of Gata6 leads to increased BASC expansion and decreased differentiation.  Together, these data demonstrate that Gata6 regulated Wnt signaling controls the balance between stem/progenitor expansion and epithelial differentiation required for both lung development and regeneration."'
GSE11165_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Epithelial organs including the lung are known to possess regenerative abilities through activation of endogenous stem cell populations but the molecular pathways regulating stem cell expansion and regeneration are not well understood.  Here we show that Gata6 regulates the temporal appearance and number of bronchioalveolar stem cells (BASCs) in the lung leading to the precocious appearance of BASCs and concurrent loss in epithelial differentiation in Gata6 null lung epithelium.  This expansion of BASCs is the result of a dramatic increase in canonical Wnt signaling in lung epithelium upon loss of Gata6. Expression of the non-canonical Wnt receptor Fzd2 is down-regulated in Gata6 mutants and increased Fzd2 or decreased β-catenin expression rescues, in part, the lung epithelial defects in Gata6 mutants.  During lung epithelial regeneration, we show that canonical Wnt signaling is activated in the niche containing BASCs and forced activation of Wnt signaling leads to a dramatic increase in BASC numbers.  Moreover, Gata6 is required for proper lung epithelial regeneration and postnatal loss of Gata6 leads to increased BASC expansion and decreased differentiation.  Together, these data demonstrate that Gata6 regulated Wnt signaling controls the balance between stem/progenitor expansion and epithelial differentiation required for both lung development and regeneration."'
GSE11165_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene targets in knockout mouse model"'
GSE11165_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"3 replicates of each condition-wild-type and GATA6 null tissue.  6 total samples."'
GSE11178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Ubiquitination is a post-translational mechanism of control of diverse cellular processes. We focus here on the ubiquitin ligase Fbw7, a recently identified hematopoietic tumor suppressor that can target for degradation several important oncogenes including Notch1, c-Myc and cyclin E. We have generated conditional Fbw7 knock-out animals and inactivated the gene in hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and their differentiated progeny. Deletion of Fbw7 specifically and rapidly affects the HSC compartment in a cell-autonomous manner. Fbw7-/- HSCs show defective maintenance of quiescence, leading to impaired self-renewal and a severe loss of competitive repopulating capacity. Furthermore, Fbw7-/- HSC  are unable to colonize the thymus leading to a profound depletion of T cell progenitors. Deletion of Fbw7 in bone marrow stem cells and progenitors leads to the stabilization of c-Myc, a transcription factor previously implicated in HSC self-renewal. On the other hand, neither Notch1 nor cyclin E are stabilized in the bone marrow of Fbw7 deficient mice. Genome-wide transcriptome studies of Fbw7-/- HSC and hematopoietic progenitors indicate that Fbw7 controls, through the regulation of HSC cell cycle entry, the global transcriptional “signature” that is associated with the quiescent, self-renewing HSC phenotype."'
GSE11178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Ubiquitination is a post-translational mechanism of control of diverse cellular processes. We focus here on the ubiquitin ligase Fbw7, a recently identified hematopoietic tumor suppressor that can target for degradation several important oncogenes including Notch1, c-Myc and cyclin E. We have generated conditional Fbw7 knock-out animals and inactivated the gene in hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and their differentiated progeny. Deletion of Fbw7 specifically and rapidly affects the HSC compartment in a cell-autonomous manner. Fbw7-/- HSCs show defective maintenance of quiescence, leading to impaired self-renewal and a severe loss of competitive repopulating capacity. Furthermore, Fbw7-/- HSC  are unable to colonize the thymus leading to a profound depletion of T cell progenitors. Deletion of Fbw7 in bone marrow stem cells and progenitors leads to the stabilization of c-Myc, a transcription factor previously implicated in HSC self-renewal. On the other hand, neither Notch1 nor cyclin E are stabilized in the bone marrow of Fbw7 deficient mice. Genome-wide transcriptome studies of Fbw7-/- HSC and hematopoietic progenitors indicate that Fbw7 controls, through the regulation of HSC cell cycle entry, the global transcriptional “signature” that is associated with the quiescent, self-renewing HSC phenotype."'
GSE11178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Ubiquitination is a post-translational mechanism of control of diverse cellular processes. We focus here on the ubiquitin ligase Fbw7, a recently identified hematopoietic tumor suppressor that can target for degradation several important oncogenes including Notch1, c-Myc and cyclin E. We have generated conditional Fbw7 knock-out animals and inactivated the gene in hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and their differentiated progeny. Deletion of Fbw7 specifically and rapidly affects the HSC compartment in a cell-autonomous manner. Fbw7-/- HSCs show defective maintenance of quiescence, leading to impaired self-renewal and a severe loss of competitive repopulating capacity. Furthermore, Fbw7-/- HSC  are unable to colonize the thymus leading to a profound depletion of T cell progenitors. Deletion of Fbw7 in bone marrow stem cells and progenitors leads to the stabilization of c-Myc, a transcription factor previously implicated in HSC self-renewal. On the other hand, neither Notch1 nor cyclin E are stabilized in the bone marrow of Fbw7 deficient mice. Genome-wide transcriptome studies of Fbw7-/- HSC and hematopoietic progenitors indicate that Fbw7 controls, through the regulation of HSC cell cycle entry, the global transcriptional “signature” that is associated with the quiescent, self-renewing HSC phenotype."'
GSE11178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Four samples were analyzed: wild-type (WT) control and Fbw7-deficient (FBW7) Lin-ckit+Sca1+ (LSK) cells, as well as Lin-ckit+Sca1- myeloid progenitor (MP) cells, which served as a control for LSK-enriched/specific genes.  Total bone marrow cells were pooled from three WT and three FBW7 mice before sorting LSK and MP populations."'
GSE11184_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Gamma-secretase inhibitors (GSIs), which block the activation of NOTCH receptors, are being tested in the treatment of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Thus far, limited antileukemic cytotoxicity and severe gastrointestinal toxicity have restricted the clinical application of these targeted drugs. Here we show that combination therapy with GSIs plus glucocorticoids can improve the antileukemic effects of GSIs and reduce their gut toxicity in vivo. Inhibition of NOTCH1 signaling in glucocorticoid-resistant T-ALL restored glucocorticoid receptor auto-up-regulation and induced apoptotic cell death through induction of BIM expression. Additionally, cotreatment with glucocorticoids induced Ccnd2 upregulation in the gut which protected mice from the intestinal secretory metaplasia typically induced by loss of NOTCH signaling. These results support a role for glucocorticoids plus GSIs in the treatment of glucocorticoid-resistant T-ALL."'
GSE11189_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"For this purpose mice were infected with wild type Ye (pYV+) or a YopH-deficient Ye mutant strain (DyopH). CD11b+ cells were isolated from infected spleen and subjected to gene expression analysis using microarrays. Despite attenuation of DyopH in vivo, by variation of infection doses we were able to achieve conditions that allow comparison of gene expression in pYV+ and DyopH infections at either comparable infection courses or splenic bacterial burden. Gene expression analysis provided evidence that expression levels of several immune response genes including IFN-g and IL-6 are high after pYV+ infection but low after sublethal DyopH infection. In line with these findings,  infection of IFN-gR-/- and IL-6-/- mice with pYV+ or DyopH revealed that these cytokines are dispensable for control of DyopH, but not pYV+ infection. Consistently, in bacteria killing assays with BMM in vitro, stimulation of BMM with IFN-g is required for killing of pYV+ but not DyopH."'
GSE11194_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"GATA4 conditional knockout in the small intestine"'
GSE11194_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Background and Aims: Although the zinc finger transcription factor GATA4 has been implicated in regulating jejunal gene expression, the contribution of GATA4 in controlling jejunal physiology has not been addressed. Methods: We generated mice in which the Gata4 gene was specifically deleted in the small intestinal epithelium.  Measurements of plasma cholesterol and phospholipids, intestinal absorption of dietary fat and cholesterol, and gene expression were performed on these animals. Results: Mice lacking GATA4 in the intestine displayed a dramatic block in their ability to absorb cholesterol and dietary fat. Comparison of the global gene expression profiles of control jejunum, control ileum, and GATA4 null jejunum by gene array analysis demonstrated that GATA4 null jejunum lost expression of 53% of the jejunal-specific gene set and gained expression of 47% of the set of genes unique to the ileum. These alterations in gene expression included a decrease in mRNAs encoding lipid and cholesterol transporters as well as an increase in mRNAs encoding proteins involved in bile acid absorption. Conclusion: Our data demonstrate that GATA4 is essential for jejunal function including fat and cholesterol absorption and confirm that GATA4 plays a pivotal role in determining jejunal versus ileal identity.  "'
GSE11194_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Background and Aims: Although the zinc finger transcription factor GATA4 has been implicated in regulating jejunal gene expression, the contribution of GATA4 in controlling jejunal physiology has not been addressed. Methods: We generated mice in which the Gata4 gene was specifically deleted in the small intestinal epithelium.  Measurements of plasma cholesterol and phospholipids, intestinal absorption of dietary fat and cholesterol, and gene expression were performed on these animals. Results: Mice lacking GATA4 in the intestine displayed a dramatic block in their ability to absorb cholesterol and dietary fat. Comparison of the global gene expression profiles of control jejunum, control ileum, and GATA4 null jejunum by gene array analysis demonstrated that GATA4 null jejunum lost expression of 53% of the jejunal-specific gene set and gained expression of 47% of the set of genes unique to the ileum. These alterations in gene expression included a decrease in mRNAs encoding lipid and cholesterol transporters as well as an increase in mRNAs encoding proteins involved in bile acid absorption. Conclusion: Our data demonstrate that GATA4 is essential for jejunal function including fat and cholesterol absorption and confirm that GATA4 plays a pivotal role in determining jejunal versus ileal identity.  "'
GSE11202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"CpG DNA interacts with TLR9 to stimulate a broadly protective innate immune response. This study uses bioinformatic network analysis of microarray data to identify the genes and regulatory networks triggered by CpG ODN. CpG treatment induced significant gene up-regulation (p < 0.00001) in the spleen within 30 min, peaking with the activation of >500 genes at 3 hr, and declining progressively thereafter. There were reproducible changes in the pattern of gene expression over time. This was mediated by a small group of “major inducers” (IL1A, IL1B, TNF, IFNG) whose activity was modulated by several “minor inducers” (NFKB1, IL6, IL15, IL18, STAT1, STAT2). The subsequent decline in gene activation was mediated by “suppressors” (MYC, IL1RN, SOCS1, SOCS3, NFKBIA, IL10, FOS) that actively down-regulated gene expression and targeted both major and minor inducers. Thus, the regulation of TLR9 dependent gene activation involves multiple waves of stimulation mediated by a small number of “major” and “minor” inducers followed by the active inhibition of gene expression by “suppressors”."'
GSE11206_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Preimplantation Genetic Testing (PGT), which encompasses both Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) and Preimplantation Genetic Screening (PGS), is a form of prenatal screening done on embryos conceived through assisted reproduction techniques (ART) prior to the initiation of pregnancy to ensure that only select embryos are used for transfer.  PGT is typically performed on 8-cell embryos derived from either in vitro fertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) followed by extended culture.  PGT requires a highly invasive embryo biopsy procedure that involves 1) incubating embryos in divalent-cation-deficient medium to disrupt cell adhesion, 2) breaching the protective zona pellucida with acid Tyrode’s, laser drilling, or mechanical force and 3) aspirating one or two blastomeres.  In this study we developed a mouse model of the embryo biopsy procedure inherent to PGT to determine the effect of various aspects of the procedure (incubation in Ca2+/Mg2+-free medium (CMF), acid Tyrode’s treatment, blastomere aspiration), performed individually or in combination, on global patterns of gene expression in the resulting blastocysts."'
GSE11210_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"bred into the Atf4 knockout strain and the derivative compound heterozygous mice (in the mixed FvB/n; Swiss Webster background) were backcrossed to the Atf4+/- parental stock and Ttr::Fv2E-PERK positive siblings with Atf4+/+ and  Atf4-/- genetypes were analyzed."'
GSE11226_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Secretoglobin (SCGB) 3A2 was originally identified as a downstream target in lung for the homeodomain transcription factor NKX2-1, whose null mutation resulted in severely hypoplastic lungs.   A very low level of SCGB3A2 is expressed in lungs at embryonic day (E) 11.5 during mouse development, which markedly increases by E16.5, the time when lung undergoes dramatic morphological changes.  These results suggest that SCGB3A2 may be involved in lung development.  We used microarray to determine whether SCGB3A2 plays a role in lung development."'
GSE11226_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"DNA microarray was performed using RNAs isolated from 4 day-organ cultured Nkx2-1-null lungs with and without SCGB3A2 treatment."'
GSE11229_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Dicer-null cell lines vs. wt ES cells and Dicer-null cell lines vs. Dicer-null cells overexpressing Dnmt1 or Dnmt3a/3b"'
GSE11229_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Dicer initiates RNA interference by generating small RNAs involved in various silencing pathways. Dicer participates in centromeric silencing, but its role in the epigenetic regulation of other chromatin domains has not been explored. Here we show that Dicer1 deficiency in Mus musculus leads to decreased DNA methylation, concomitant with increased telomere recombination and telomere elongation. These DNA-methylation defects correlate with decreased expression of Dnmt1, Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts), and methylation levels can be recovered by their overexpression. We identify the retinoblastoma-like 2 protein (Rbl2) as responsible for decreased Dnmt expression in Dicer1-null cells, suggesting the existence of Dicer-dependent small RNAs that target Rbl2."'
GSE11229_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Dicer initiates RNA interference by generating small RNAs involved in various silencing pathways. Dicer participates in centromeric silencing, but its role in the epigenetic regulation of other chromatin domains has not been explored. Here we show that Dicer1 deficiency in Mus musculus leads to decreased DNA methylation, concomitant with increased telomere recombination and telomere elongation. These DNA-methylation defects correlate with decreased expression of Dnmt1, Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts), and methylation levels can be recovered by their overexpression. We identify the retinoblastoma-like 2 protein (Rbl2) as responsible for decreased Dnmt expression in Dicer1-null cells, suggesting the existence of Dicer-dependent small RNAs that target Rbl2."'
GSE11229_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We identify the miR-290 cluster as being downregulated in Dicer1-deficient cells and show that it silences Rbl2, thereby controlling Dnmt expression. These results identify a pathway by which miR-290 directly regulates Rbl2-dependent Dnmt expression, indirectly affecting telomere-length homeostasis."'
GSE11240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Proper regulation of chromatin structure is necessary for the maintenance of cell type-specific gene expression patterns. The embryonic stem cell (ESC) expression pattern governs self-renewal and pluripotency. Here, we present an RNAi screen in mouse ESCs of 1008 loci encoding chromatin proteins. We identified 68 proteins that exhibit diverse phenotypes upon knockdown (KD), including seven subunits of the Tip60-p400 complex. Phenotypic analyses revealed that Tip60-p400 is necessary to maintain characteristic features of ESCs. We show that p400 localization to the promoters of both silent and active genes is dependent upon histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3). Furthermore, the Tip60-p400 KD gene expression profile is enriched for developmental regulators and significantly overlaps with that of the transcription factor Nanog. Depletion of Nanog reduces p400 binding to target promoters without affecting H3K4me3 levels. Together, these data indicate that Tip60-p400 integrates signals from Nanog and H3K4me3 to regulate gene expression in ESCs."'
GSE11240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockdown-gene expression profiling"'
GSE11240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"We identified genes encoding subunits of the Tip60-p400 complex in an RNAi screen of chromatin proteins in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs), which upon depletion resulted in a dramatic phenotype. To investigate the role of this complex in gene expression in ESCs, we performed expression profiling upon depletion of the catalytic subunits. We performed 4 biological replicates of p400 or Tip60 knockdown and compared them to biological replicates of control EGFP knockdown. The p400 (Ep400) experiment was performed as competitive two-color hybridizations on one 4x44K array with dye swaps and the Tip60 (Htatip) experiment was performed as single color hybridizations on two 4x44K arrays.  Note: the Tip60 KD replicate 3 was excluded from downstream analysis of differential expression, because the intensity profile was an outlier in diagnostic analyses"'
GSE11241-GPL6770_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Proper regulation of chromatin structure is necessary for the maintenance of cell type-specific gene expression patterns. The embryonic stem cell (ESC) expression pattern governs self-renewal and pluripotency. Here, we present an RNAi screen in mouse ESCs of 1008 loci encoding chromatin proteins. We identified 68 proteins that exhibit diverse phenotypes upon knockdown (KD), including seven subunits of the Tip60-p400 complex. Phenotypic analyses revealed that Tip60-p400 is necessary to maintain characteristic features of ESCs. We show that p400 localization to the promoters of both silent and active genes is dependent upon histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3). Furthermore, the Tip60-p400 KD gene expression profile is enriched for developmental regulators and significantly overlaps with that of the transcription factor Nanog. Depletion of Nanog reduces p400 binding to target promoters without affecting H3K4me3 levels. Together, these data indicate that Tip60-p400 integrates signals from Nanog and H3K4me3 to regulate gene expression in ESCs."'
GSE11241-GPL6771_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Proper regulation of chromatin structure is necessary for the maintenance of cell type-specific gene expression patterns. The embryonic stem cell (ESC) expression pattern governs self-renewal and pluripotency. Here, we present an RNAi screen in mouse ESCs of 1008 loci encoding chromatin proteins. We identified 68 proteins that exhibit diverse phenotypes upon knockdown (KD), including seven subunits of the Tip60-p400 complex. Phenotypic analyses revealed that Tip60-p400 is necessary to maintain characteristic features of ESCs. We show that p400 localization to the promoters of both silent and active genes is dependent upon histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3). Furthermore, the Tip60-p400 KD gene expression profile is enriched for developmental regulators and significantly overlaps with that of the transcription factor Nanog. Depletion of Nanog reduces p400 binding to target promoters without affecting H3K4me3 levels. Together, these data indicate that Tip60-p400 integrates signals from Nanog and H3K4me3 to regulate gene expression in ESCs."'
GSE11244_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Background: Calorie restriction (CR) is the only intervention known to extend lifespan in a wide range of organisms, including mammals. However, the mechanisms by which it regulates mammalian aging remain largely unknown and the involvement of the TOR and Sirtuin pathways (which regulate aging in lower organisms) remain controversial. Femaleness is a second phenotype generally associated with longevity but the relationship between sex-biased and CR-induced gene expression remains undetermined.    Methodology/Principal Findings: We generated microarray gene expression data from livers of male mice fed high calorie or CR diets, and we find that CR significantly changes the expression of over 3,000 genes, many between 10- and 50-fold. We compare our data to the GenAge database of known aging-related genes and to prior microarray expression data of genes expressed differently between male and female mice. CR generally feminizes gene expression and many of the most significantly changed individual genes are involved in aging, hormone signaling, and p53-associated regulation of the cell cycle and apoptosis. Among the genes showing the largest and most statistically significant CR-induced expression differences are Ddit4, a key regulator of the TOR pathway, and Nnmt, a regulator of lifespan linked to the Sirtuin pathway. Using Western analyses, we confirmed post-translational inhibition of the TOR pathway.    Conclusions: Our data show that CR induces widespread gene expression changes and acts through highly evolutionarily conserved pathways, from microorganisms to mammals, and that its life-extension effects might arise partly from a shift toward a gene expression profile more typical of the longer-lived female sex."'
GSE11252_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We are investigating the transcriptional response of mice that are wt or null for Aag in response to alkylating agent MMS"'
GSE11252_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression response due to MMS exposure in a DNA repair proficient or deficient mouse"'
GSE11252_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mice (WT and Aag null) were treated with MMS and livers extracted at 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours"'
GSE11253_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from Rb family (Rb, p130 and p107) deficient Hematopoietic stem Cells"'
GSE11253_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Loss of Rb family in HSCs results in a severe phenotype, such as enhanced proliferation and increase in stem cell number. In addition, HSCs were higly mobilized but failed to transplant. Rb family deficient mice rapidly exhibit a myeloproliferative disease with eosinophilic characteristics. Meanwhile, the lymphoid compartment was severely decreased, due to high apoptotic activity in this lineage."'
GSE11253_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: unpaired WT versus Rb family deficient KLS"'
GSE11276_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of adult intact naive C57Bl/6 Nogo-A KO versus WT spinal cord"'
GSE11276_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Nogo-A localized on myelin adaxonal membrane in the adult CNS is well known for its role as neurite outgrowth inhibitor following a lesion. Nogo-A KO mice show enhanced regenerative/compensatory fiber growth following CNS lesion. However, changes undergoing in their intact CNS have not been studied. Moreover, Nogo-A in the intact adult CNS in also expressed in some neuronal subpopulations, e.g. in the hippocampus, olfactory bulbs and dorsal root ganglia."'
GSE11276_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"We compared the intact adult CNS (spinal cord) of Nogo-A KO mice in order to identify: potential compensating molecules which could be interesting new inhibitory neurite outgrowth candidates, possible molecules involved in the up to now not yet clarified downstream signalling pathway of Nogo-A, additional new functions for myelin or neuronal Nogo-A in the intact adult CNS."'
GSE11276_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene expression, Nogo-A KO, spinal cord, adult, naive, unlesioned"'
GSE11276_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Spinal cords from 3 adult C57Bl/6 wild type and Nogo-A KO mice have been explanted. Total RNA has been extracted and processed for hybridization on Mouse 430 2.0 Affymetrix GeneChips. Following scanning and first analysis with MAS 5.0, further analysis was performed by GeneSpring 7.2 (Silicon Genetics, Redwood City, CA). A present call filter (2 out of 3 present calls in at least one out of the different studied conditions) was applied. Normalization was run per chip as well as per gene to the median of the control replicates. Data were statistical restricted through a 1-way Anova (p=0.05). A final threshold of =1.2 folds of increase or decrease in the expression level of each single transcript was applied. Regulated transcripts have been assigned to functional categories according to GeneOntology as well as literature and database mining (Pubmed and Bioinformatics Harvester EMBL Heidelberg)."'
GSE11286_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Mice deficient in Apolipoprotein E (Apoe E(-/-)) vs wild type mice were exposed to diesel engine particulate by single dose intratracheal instillation.  The transcript-level response of the hearts after 24h  and of the  lungs after 24 h and 5 days were subsequently analyzed by the 2-color microarray method."'
GSE11287_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Keap1-dependent gene expression determined in the liver using conditional Keap1 knockout mice vs. genetic control mice"'
GSE11287_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"To compare hepatic gene expression in conditional Keap1 knockout (Alb-Cre:Keap1(flox/-)) and genetic control mice. Disruption of Keap1-mediated repression of Nrf2 signaling was expected to result in increased expression of Nrf2-regulated genes."'
GSE11287_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Hepatic gene expression was compared in conditional Keap1 knockout and genetic control mice (Alb-Cre:Keap1(flox/+)) mice.  Male 9 week old mice were used, n=3/group."'
GSE11314_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We have demonstrated previously that mammalian sexual differentiation requires both GATA4 and FOG2 transcription regulators to assemble the functioning testis. We have now determined that the sexual development of female mice is profoundly affected by the loss of GATA4-FOG2 interaction. We have also identified the Dkk1 gene, encoding a secreted inhibitor of canonical β-catenin signaling as a target of GATA4/FOG2 repression in the developing ovary. The tissue-specific ablation of the β-catenin gene in the gonads disrupts female development while in the Gata4ki/ki/Dkk1-/- or Fog2-/-/Dkk1-/- embryos the normal ovarian gene expression pattern is partially restored. Control of ovarian development by the GATA4/FOG2 complex presents a novel insight into the crosstalk of transcriptional regulation and extracellular signaling in ovarian development."'
GSE11317_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The lymphatic system is a common avenue for the spread of breast cancer cells and dissemination through it occurs at least as frequently as hematogenous metastasis. Approximately 75% of primary breast cancers are estrogen receptor (ER) positive and the majority of these maintain receptor expression as lymph node (LN) metastases. However, it is unknown if ER function is equivalent in cancer cells growing in the breast and in the LNs. We have developed a model to assess estrogen responsiveness in ER(+) breast tumors and LN metastases. Fluorescent ER(+) MCF-7 tumors were grown in ovariectomized nude mice supplemented with estradiol. Once axillary LN metastasis arose, estradiol was withdrawn (EWD), for 1 or 4 weeks, or continued, to assess estradiol responsiveness. On EWD, proliferation rates fell similarly in tumors and LN metastases. However, estradiol-dependent ER down-regulation and progesterone receptor induction were deficient in LN metastases, indicating that ER-dependent transcriptional function was altered in the LN. Cancer cells from estradiol-treated and EWD primary tumors and matched LN metastases were isolated by laser capture microdissection. Global gene expression profiling identified transcripts that were regulated by the tissue microenvironment, by hormones, or by both. Interestingly, numerous genes that were estradiol regulated in tumors lost estradiol sensitivity or were regulated in the opposite direction by estradiol in LN metastases. We propose that the LN microenvironment alters estradiol signaling and may contribute to local antiestrogen resistance."'
GSE11321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Neural tube defects (NTDs) are one of the most common human birth defects, with a prevalence of approximately 1 in 1000 live births in the United States.  In animal studies, deletion of p53 leads to a significant increase in embryos that exhibit exencephaly.  Whereas several studies have closely investigated the morphological changes of p53-deficient embryos, there is no study that has reported the molecular-level alternations in p53-deficient embryos.  Here we use microarray approach to find genes modified by deletion of p53 in day 8.5 mouse embryos to identify genes that may be involved in the mechanisms underlining NTDs and begin to define the developmental role of p53 in the etiology of NTDs.      "'
GSE11321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Neural tube defects (NTDs) are one of the most common human birth defects, with a prevalence of approximately 1 in 1000 live births in the United States.  In animal studies, deletion of p53 leads to a significant increase in embryos that exhibit exencephaly.  Whereas several studies have closely investigated the morphological changes of p53-deficient embryos, there is no study that has reported the molecular-level alternations in p53-deficient embryos.  Here we use microarray approach to find genes modified by deletion of p53 in day 8.5 mouse embryos to identify genes that may be involved in the mechanisms underlining NTDs and begin to define the developmental role of p53 in the etiology of NTDs.      "'
GSE11322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Attenuated upregulation of GABAergic markers in response to BDNF in neurons lacking Xbp1"'
GSE11322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"XBP1 is a transcription factor that is induced by unconventional splicing associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress and plays a role in development of liver and plasma cells. We previously reported that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leads to splicing of XBP1 mRNA in neurites, and that XBP1 is required for BDNF-induced neurite extension and branching. To search for the molecular mechanisms of how XBP1 plays a role in neural development, comprehensive gene expression analysis was performed in primary telencephalic neurons obtained from Xbp1 knockout mice at embryonic day 12.5. By searching for the genes induced by BDNF in wild type neurons but this induction was reduced in Xbp1 knockout mice, we found that upregulation of three GABAergic markers, somatostatin (Sst), neuropeptide Y (Npy), and calbindin (Calb1), were compromised in Xbp1 knockout neurons. Attenuated induction of Npy and Calb1 was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. In neurons lacking in Xbp1, upregulation of GABAergic markers was attenuated.  Impaired BDNF-induced neurite extension in Xbp1 knockout neurons might be mediated by disturbed BDNF-induced differentiation of GABAergic interneurons."'
GSE11322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"XBP1 is a transcription factor that is induced by unconventional splicing associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress and plays a role in development of liver and plasma cells. We previously reported that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leads to splicing of XBP1 mRNA in neurites, and that XBP1 is required for BDNF-induced neurite extension and branching. To search for the molecular mechanisms of how XBP1 plays a role in neural development, comprehensive gene expression analysis was performed in primary telencephalic neurons obtained from Xbp1 knockout mice at embryonic day 12.5. By searching for the genes induced by BDNF in wild type neurons but this induction was reduced in Xbp1 knockout mice, we found that upregulation of three GABAergic markers, somatostatin (Sst), neuropeptide Y (Npy), and calbindin (Calb1), were compromised in Xbp1 knockout neurons. Attenuated induction of Npy and Calb1 was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. In neurons lacking in Xbp1, upregulation of GABAergic markers was attenuated.  Impaired BDNF-induced neurite extension in Xbp1 knockout neurons might be mediated by disturbed BDNF-induced differentiation of GABAergic interneurons."'
GSE11331_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Ribosomal protein S6 Rps6 heterozygous null deletion effect on footpad epidermis"'
GSE11331_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Ribosomal protein S6 Rps6 heterozygous null deletion effect on footpad epidermis"'
GSE11331_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The tissue (footpad epidermis) is from a conditional heterozygous null deletion of Rps6. One copy of Rps6 was deleted from keratinocytes in the skin using the K5.Cre transgene."'
GSE11331_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The tissue (footpad epidermis) is from a conditional heterozygous null deletion of Rps6. One copy of Rps6 was deleted from keratinocytes in the skin using the K5.Cre transgene."'
GSE11333_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Post-transcriptional mechanisms play an important role in the control of gene expression. RNA-binding proteins are key players in the post-transcriptional control of many neural genes and they participate in multiple processes, from RNA splicing and mRNA transport to mRNA stability and translation. Our laboratory has developed the first mouse model overexpressing a RNA-binding protein, the ELAV-like protein HuD, in the CNS under the control of the CaMKinII alpha promoter. Initial behavioral characterization of the mice revealed that they had significant learning deficits together with abnormalities in prepulse inhibition (PPI). At the molecular level, we found that the expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43, one of the targets of HuD, was increased in the hippocampus of HuD transgenic mice."'
GSE11335-GPL6813_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11335-GPL6813_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11335-GPL6814_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11335-GPL6814_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11335-GPL6815_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11335-GPL6815_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE11344_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We describe a method, MADS (Microarray Analysis of Differential Splicing), for discovery of differential alternative splicing from exon tiling microarrays. MADS incorporates a series of low-level analysis algorithms motivated by the “probe-rich” design of exon arrays, including background correction, iterative probe selection, and removal of sequence-specific cross-hybridization to off-target transcripts. We used MADS to analyze Affymetrix Exon 1.0 array data on a mouse neuroblastoma cell line after shRNA-mediated knockdown of the splicing factor PTB.  From a list of exons with pre-determined inclusion/exclusion profiles in response to PTB depletion, MADS recognized all exons known to have large changes in transcript inclusion levels, and offered improvement over Affymetrix’s analysis procedure. We also identified numerous novel PTB-dependent splicing events. 30 novel events were tested by RT-PCR, and 27 were confirmed. This work demonstrates that the exon tiling microarray design is an efficient and powerful approach for global, unbiased analysis of pre-mRNA splicing."'
GSE11344_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: control / knockdown comparison"'
GSE11344_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Short hairpin knockdown of PTB in mouse N2A neuroblastoma cells was performed as described before (Boutz et al., 2007, Genes Dev 21:1636-1652). The efficiency of the PTB knockdown was monitored by western blot using PTB-NT primary antibody and Cy5 labeled secondary antibody (GE Life Sciences). The blots were imaged using Typhoon 9410 (GE Life Sciences). The band intensities were measured using ImageQuant and normalized to GAPDH. In all cases the efficiency of the knockdown was close to 80% (data not shown). We conducted Exon array profiling on RNAs from three shRNA-PTB treated samples and three mock-treated controls (using empty vectors)."'
GSE11346_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"12-13 weeks old Apoe knockout mice (C57BL/6-Apoe tm1) mice were injected intraperitoneally with varying doses of SRM 2975. In a parallel experiment C57BL mice were exposed by inhalation for 90 minutes to four consecutive doses of 20mg/m3 of filtered air, NIST 2975 or Ptintex 90. Livers and aortic tissue were collected."'
GSE11357_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Radiotherapy is widely used to treat human cancer. Patients locally recurring after radiotherapy, however, have increased risk of metastatic progression and poor prognosis. The clinical management of post-radiation recurrences remains an unresolved issue. Tumors growing in pre-irradiated tissues have an increased fraction of hypoxic cells and are more metastatic, a condition known as tumor bed effect. Here we demonstrate that tumor cells growing in a pre-irradiated bed, or selected in vitro though repeated cycles of severe hypoxia, retain an invasive and metastatic capacities when returned to normoxia. HIF activity, while it facilitates metastatic spreading of tumors growing in a pre-irradiated bed, is not essential. Through gene expression profiling and gain and loss of function experiments, we identified the matricellular protein CYR61 and aVb5 integrin, as proteins cooperating to mediate these effects. Inhibition of aVb5 integrin suppressed invasion and metastasis induced by CYR61 and attenuated metastasis of tumors growing within a pre-irradiated field. These results represent a conceptual advance to the understanding of the tumor bed effect and identify CYR61 and aVb5 integrin as proteins that co-operate to mediate metastasis. They also indicate aV integrin inhibition a potential therapeutic approach for preventing metastasis in patients at risk for post-radiation recurrences, which can be promptly tested in the clinic."'
GSE11357_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Radiotherapy is widely used to treat human cancer. Patients locally recurring after radiotherapy, however, have increased risk of metastatic progression and poor prognosis. The clinical management of post-radiation recurrences remains an unresolved issue. Tumors growing in pre-irradiated tissues have an increased fraction of hypoxic cells and are more metastatic, a condition known as tumor bed effect. Here we demonstrate that tumor cells growing in a pre-irradiated bed, or selected in vitro though repeated cycles of severe hypoxia, retain an invasive and metastatic capacities when returned to normoxia. HIF activity, while it facilitates metastatic spreading of tumors growing in a pre-irradiated bed, is not essential. Through gene expression profiling and gain and loss of function experiments, we identified the matricellular protein CYR61 and aVb5 integrin, as proteins cooperating to mediate these effects. Inhibition of aVb5 integrin suppressed invasion and metastasis induced by CYR61 and attenuated metastasis of tumors growing within a pre-irradiated field. These results represent a conceptual advance to the understanding of the tumor bed effect and identify CYR61 and aVb5 integrin as proteins that co-operate to mediate metastasis. They also indicate aV integrin inhibition a potential therapeutic approach for preventing metastasis in patients at risk for post-radiation recurrences, which can be promptly tested in the clinic."'
GSE11386_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"These data represent our second generation comparison of gene expression between murine naïve and memory splenic B cells. Naïve NP-binding AA4.1neg splenic B cells were FACS purified from unimmunized mVh186.2 transgenic Jk KO Balb/c mice. Memory B cells were generated from these naive precursors after adoptive transfer into recipients that mount poor endogenous NP-responses. 12-weeks post i.p. immunization with NP-CGG in alum, NP-specific splenic memory  B cells  were isolated by FACS. Total RNA was extracted, cRNA synthesized and labeled and hybridized to Affymetrix mouse 430 2.0 chips."'
GSE11396_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Growth hormone receptor was truncated at amino acid 569, amino acid 391, mutated within the Box1 region, or removed altogether (KO) and transgenic mice were created.  At 4 months of age male mice were starved overnight and sacrificed."'
GSE11443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Previous work has led us to examine the differences in the choroid plexus function in B10.pl WT mice versus B10.PL RAG-/- mice. We believe that there is a difference between those that are normal functioning and those that are lymphocyte deficient."'
GSE11443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To determine the gene expression profile of the choroid plexus in wild type mice as compared to those that are lymphocyte deficient."'
GSE11443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We hypothesize that there is altered expression in the genes that mediate cellular adhesion in choroid plexus from wild type mice as compared to those that are lymphocyte deficient."'
GSE11484_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Understanding the nature of the various glucose-derived signals for insulin secretion (both triggering and amplifying) is essential for gaining insight into the functional failure of the beta-cells in diabetes and the development of drugs for correcting this problem. The beta-cells uniquely couple changes in cellular metabolism to electrical activity and thus insulin release. In mice, beta-cell specific deletion of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor protein leads to the activation of a HIF transcription program that includes genes involved in glycolysis, suppression of mitochondrial activity and lactate production. This reprogramming of cellular metabolism results in abnormal insulin secretion properties."'
GSE11494_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"C57BL/6 mice (6-10 weeks old), 4 per group, were infected intranasally with log-phase Streptococcus pyogenes, 2 to 4 x 10^8 CFU per 15 µl of pyrogen-free PBS.  Sham-infected mice were administered 15 µl of the same PBS.  Mice were infected with wild type strain 90-226 (Cue 1998), a 90-226 strain containing an in-frame deletion of M1 protein (90-226 delta emm1) (Zimmerlein 2005) or an attenuated 90-226 which lacks both M1 and SCPA proteins (90-226att).  NALT was collected from mice at 24h after infection and stored in RNAlater until RNA could be purified)."'
GSE11496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from Gcn2 wild-type and knockout mouse liver perfused with or without methionine"'
GSE11496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gcn2 wild-type or knockout mouse liver were perfused with complete amino acids media or media lacking methionine for RNA extraction and hybridization of Affymetrix microarrays.  RNA was extracted from unfractionated liver samples and polysome fraction of samples separated on sucrose density gradient.  To minimize biological variations, we pooled RNA from two perfused liver samples to use in each array analysis.  The conditions were total and polysome fraction of Gcn2+/+, +Met or -Met; total and polysome fraction of Gcn2-/-, +Met or -Met.  Each array analysis was done in duplicate."'
GSE11496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gcn2 wild-type or knockout mouse liver were perfused with complete amino acids media or media lacking methionine for RNA extraction and hybridization of Affymetrix microarrays.  RNA was extracted from unfractionated liver samples and polysome fraction of samples separated on sucrose density gradient.  To minimize biological variations, we pooled RNA from two perfused liver samples to use in each array analysis.  The conditions were total and polysome fraction of Gcn2+/+, +Met or -Met; total and polysome fraction of Gcn2-/-, +Met or -Met.  Each array analysis was done in duplicate."'
GSE11507_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Background. Abcb4 (-/-) mice secrete phosphatidylcholine-deficient bile and develop sclerosing cholangitis (SC). The cholangitis involves differential hepatic transcription of genes whose products govern inflammation, activation of hepatic stellate cells and fibrosis.  This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that several genes involved in regulation of tissue inflammation and fibrosis display transcription rates that reflect SC disease activity. Methods. Abcb4 (-/-) mice fed cholic acid (CA) display high SC activity and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) fed mice display low SC activity. Differential hepatic transcription of genes was accordingly measured in abcb4 (-/-) mice maintained on CA- and UDCA-supplemented diets using cDNA microarrays. Abcb4 (+/+) mice served as controls. The differential transcription of selected genes was verified by real time polymerase chain reaction. Liver tissue pathology was quantified by histopathology scoring and immunohistochemistry to visualize bile duct cells and activated hepatic stellate cells. Results. Differential transcription of  Ccl2, Ccl20, Cxcl10, Nfκb1, Nfκb2, Tgfβ1, Tgfβ2, Sparc, Ctgf, Lgals3, Elf3, Spp1, Pdgfa, Pdgfrb, Col1a1, Col1a2 and Col4a1 genes paralleled the differing SC activities of cholic acid- and UDCA-fed abcb4 (-/-) mice. Histopathology scores and immunohistochemistry showed greatly enhanced activation of hepatic stellate cells during high SC activity due to CA feeding. Conclusion. Differential transcription of several genes relating to tissue inflammation and hepatic stellate cell activation parallels SC activity in abcb4 (-/-) mice. Data on their differential transcription may be used to gauge SC disease activity. "'
GSE11547_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Neural tube defects (NTDs) are one of the most common human birth defects, with a prevalence of approximately 1 in 1000 live births in the United States. In animal studies, deletion of p53 and hyperthermia leads to a significant increase in embryos that exhibit exencephaly. To evaluate the effects of hyperthermia on p53-deficient mouse embryos we used microarray approach to find genes modified by deletion of p53 and hyperthermia treatment in day 8.5 mouse embryos to identify genes that may be involved in the mechanisms underlining NTDs and begin to define the developmental role of p53 in the etiology of NTDs. "'
GSE11547_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Neural tube defects (NTDs) are one of the most common human birth defects, with a prevalence of approximately 1 in 1000 live births in the United States. In animal studies, deletion of p53 and hyperthermia leads to a significant increase in embryos that exhibit exencephaly. To evaluate the effects of hyperthermia on p53-deficient mouse embryos we used microarray approach to find genes modified by deletion of p53 and hyperthermia treatment in day 8.5 mouse embryos to identify genes that may be involved in the mechanisms underlining NTDs and begin to define the developmental role of p53 in the etiology of NTDs. "'
GSE11557_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Effect of Evi-1 deletion in hematopoietic stem cells"'
GSE11576-GPL5811_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6445_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6446_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6447_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6448_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6449_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11576-GPL6450_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription initiation in mammals is assumed to be independently controlled among nearby genes. On the other hand, recent large-scale transcriptome analyses have shown that the genome is pervasively transcribed, such that the majority of its DNA gives rise to RNAs. A simple question therefore arises: is it possible to pinpoint and activate a particular locus without perturbing numerous neighboring transcripts? Here we show that intensive transcription of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in response to growth factor stimulation is often accompanied by co-upregulation of their neighboring genes. Profiling primary transcripts in the nucleus with whole-genome tiling arrays delineated simultaneous activation of transcription centered on IEGs. Even in surrounding intergenic regions, which lack annotated protein-coding genes, transcriptional upregulation took place at the same time. We further found that acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 are elevated along with the IEG induction and neighbouring co-upregulation, and that inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the transcription factor SRF suppresses all these transcriptional upregulation. These results suggest that transcriptional activation has a ripple effect, and causes a substantial fluctuation in multiple intragenic and intergenic transcripts."'
GSE11585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Granulosa cell gene expression in gonadotropin-treated ERbeta-het and ERbeta-null mice"'
GSE11585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The aim of this study was to determine the role of ERβ in the response of mouse granulosa cells to PMSG (an FSH analog) by comparing the gene expression profiles of ERβ-het and ERβ-null animals treated with this compound."'
GSE11585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"ERβ-het and ERβ-null mice were treated with PMSG for 48h and granulosa cells isolated and pooled according to gentoype, resulting in the production of two RNA samples (one biological replicate per gentoype). There were two hyb replicates for the comparison. Two slides were hybridized for the sample pairing to allow for dye reversals (technical replicates)."'
GSE11591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To assess gene expression changes in Irgm1 (Lrg-47) deficient HSCs"'
GSE11591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: genetic modification, knockout"'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiles of wild type and Mecp2-null mice in three different regions of the brain"'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Background. Rett syndrome (RTT) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is one of the most frequent causes of mental retardation in women. A great landmark in research in this field was the discovery of a relationship between the disease and the presence of mutations in the gene that codes for the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Currently, MeCP2 is thought to act as a transcriptional repressor that couples DNA methylation and transcriptional silencing. The present study aimed to identify new target genes directly regulated by Mecp2 in a mouse model of RTT. Methodology. We have compared the gene expression profiles of wild type (WT) and Mecp2-null (KO) mice in three regions of the brain (cortex, midbrain, and cerebellum) by using cDNA microarrays. The results obtained were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed seven direct target genes of Mecp2 bound in vivo (Dlk1, Mobp, Plagl1, Ddc, Mllt2h, Eya2, and S100a9), and two overexpressed genes due to an indirect effect of a lack of Mecp2 (Irak1 and Prodh). Bisulfite sequencing analysis of the methylation patterns of promoters of the described genes showed no differences between WT and KO mice, demonstrating that methylation differences were not the cause of the observed expression changes. Moreover, the regions bound by Mecp2 were always methylated, suggesting the involvement of the methyl-CpG binding domain of the protein in the mechanism of interaction. Conclusions. We identified new genes that are overexpressed in KO mice and are excellent candidate genes for involvement in various features of the neurodevelopmental disease. Our results demonstrate new targets of MeCP2 and provide us with a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of RTT."'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Background. Rett syndrome (RTT) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is one of the most frequent causes of mental retardation in women. A great landmark in research in this field was the discovery of a relationship between the disease and the presence of mutations in the gene that codes for the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Currently, MeCP2 is thought to act as a transcriptional repressor that couples DNA methylation and transcriptional silencing. The present study aimed to identify new target genes directly regulated by Mecp2 in a mouse model of RTT. Methodology. We have compared the gene expression profiles of wild type (WT) and Mecp2-null (KO) mice in three regions of the brain (cortex, midbrain, and cerebellum) by using cDNA microarrays. The results obtained were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed seven direct target genes of Mecp2 bound in vivo (Dlk1, Mobp, Plagl1, Ddc, Mllt2h, Eya2, and S100a9), and two overexpressed genes due to an indirect effect of a lack of Mecp2 (Irak1 and Prodh). Bisulfite sequencing analysis of the methylation patterns of promoters of the described genes showed no differences between WT and KO mice, demonstrating that methylation differences were not the cause of the observed expression changes. Moreover, the regions bound by Mecp2 were always methylated, suggesting the involvement of the methyl-CpG binding domain of the protein in the mechanism of interaction. Conclusions. We identified new genes that are overexpressed in KO mice and are excellent candidate genes for involvement in various features of the neurodevelopmental disease. Our results demonstrate new targets of MeCP2 and provide us with a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of RTT."'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Background. Rett syndrome (RTT) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is one of the most frequent causes of mental retardation in women. A great landmark in research in this field was the discovery of a relationship between the disease and the presence of mutations in the gene that codes for the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Currently, MeCP2 is thought to act as a transcriptional repressor that couples DNA methylation and transcriptional silencing. The present study aimed to identify new target genes directly regulated by Mecp2 in a mouse model of RTT. Methodology. We have compared the gene expression profiles of wild type (WT) and Mecp2-null (KO) mice in three regions of the brain (cortex, midbrain, and cerebellum) by using cDNA microarrays. The results obtained were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed seven direct target genes of Mecp2 bound in vivo (Dlk1, Mobp, Plagl1, Ddc, Mllt2h, Eya2, and S100a9), and two overexpressed genes due to an indirect effect of a lack of Mecp2 (Irak1 and Prodh). Bisulfite sequencing analysis of the methylation patterns of promoters of the described genes showed no differences between WT and KO mice, demonstrating that methylation differences were not the cause of the observed expression changes. Moreover, the regions bound by Mecp2 were always methylated, suggesting the involvement of the methyl-CpG binding domain of the protein in the mechanism of interaction. Conclusions. We identified new genes that are overexpressed in KO mice and are excellent candidate genes for involvement in various features of the neurodevelopmental disease. Our results demonstrate new targets of MeCP2 and provide us with a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of RTT."'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparative experiment: Mecp2-null (KO) mice vs. their corresponding age-mated wild type (WT) littermates (CONTROLS). Four couples of KO-WT animals are used and three different brain regions are studied from each couple; cortex, midbrain, and cerebellum."'
GSE11596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparative experiment: Mecp2-null (KO) mice vs. their corresponding age-mated wild type (WT) littermates (CONTROLS). Four couples of KO-WT animals are used and three different brain regions are studied from each couple; cortex, midbrain, and cerebellum."'
GSE11631_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Spermatogenesis in a null mutant (PU.1(G/G)) was arrested at the prenatal stage, with reduced numbers of gonocytes owing to a defect in proliferation already noticeable at E12.5. Transcripts of several germinal markers, including vasa (Mvh, Ddx4), Oct4 (Pou5f1), Dazl and Taf4b, were detected, whereas stella (PGC7, Dppa3) was not. Germ cells of PU.1(G/G) newborn testes grafted in nude mice did not initiate the postnatal replicative stage, whereas grafts of their wild-type littermates underwent complete spermatogenesis. During embryonic development, PU.1 transcription was initiated as early as the blastocyst stage, with a generalized expression at E6.5 in the embryonic ectoderm. PU.1 therefore appears to play a determinant role in at least two distinct lineages and, given its wide range of expression, possibly in other stem cells."'
GSE11632_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional profiling of Tmprss6-deficient mouse liver"'
GSE11632_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Tmprss6-deficient mice were generated by gene targeting. Total RNA was extracted from liver samples from control and Tmprss6-deficient male mice after o/n fasting. Transcriptional profiling was analyzed using GeneChip Mouse 430 2.0 arrays."'
GSE11661_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Muscle ring finger-1 (MuRF1) is a muscle-specific protein implicated in the regulation of cardiac myocyte size and contractility. MuRF2, a closely related family member, redundantly interacts with protein substrates, and hetero-dimerizes with MuRF1. Mice lacking either MuRF1 or MuRF2 are phenotypically normal whereas mice lacking both proteins develop a spontaneous cardiac and skeletal muscle hypertrophy indicating cooperative control of muscle mass by MuRF1 and MuRF2. In order to identify the role that MuRF1 plays in regulating cardiac hypertrophy in vivo, we created transgenic mice expressing increased amounts of cardiac MuRF1. Adult MuRF1 transgenic (Tg+) hearts exhibited a non-progressive thinning of the left ventricular wall and a concomitant decrease in cardiac function. Experimental induction of cardiac hypertrophy by trans-aortic constriction (TAC) induced rapid failure of MuRF1 Tg+ hearts. Microarray analysis identified that the levels of genes associated with metabolism (and in particular mitochondrial processes) were significantly altered in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, both at baseline and during the development of cardiac hypertrophy. Surprisingly, ATP levels in MuRF1 Tg+ mice did not differ from wild type mice despite the depressed contractility following TAC. To explain this discrepancy between the ongoing heart failure and maintained ATP levels in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, we compared the level and activity of creatine kinase (CK) between wild type and MuRF1 Tg+ hearts. Although mCK and CK-M/B protein levels were unaffected in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, total CK activity was significantly inhibited. We conclude that MuRF1’s inhibition of CK activity leads to increased susceptibility to heart failure following TAC, demonstrating for the first time that MuRF1 regulates cardiac energetics in vivo."'
GSE11661_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Muscle ring finger-1 (MuRF1) is a muscle-specific protein implicated in the regulation of cardiac myocyte size and contractility. MuRF2, a closely related family member, redundantly interacts with protein substrates, and hetero-dimerizes with MuRF1. Mice lacking either MuRF1 or MuRF2 are phenotypically normal whereas mice lacking both proteins develop a spontaneous cardiac and skeletal muscle hypertrophy indicating cooperative control of muscle mass by MuRF1 and MuRF2. In order to identify the role that MuRF1 plays in regulating cardiac hypertrophy in vivo, we created transgenic mice expressing increased amounts of cardiac MuRF1. Adult MuRF1 transgenic (Tg+) hearts exhibited a non-progressive thinning of the left ventricular wall and a concomitant decrease in cardiac function. Experimental induction of cardiac hypertrophy by trans-aortic constriction (TAC) induced rapid failure of MuRF1 Tg+ hearts. Microarray analysis identified that the levels of genes associated with metabolism (and in particular mitochondrial processes) were significantly altered in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, both at baseline and during the development of cardiac hypertrophy. Surprisingly, ATP levels in MuRF1 Tg+ mice did not differ from wild type mice despite the depressed contractility following TAC. To explain this discrepancy between the ongoing heart failure and maintained ATP levels in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, we compared the level and activity of creatine kinase (CK) between wild type and MuRF1 Tg+ hearts. Although mCK and CK-M/B protein levels were unaffected in MuRF1 Tg+ hearts, total CK activity was significantly inhibited. We conclude that MuRF1’s inhibition of CK activity leads to increased susceptibility to heart failure following TAC, demonstrating for the first time that MuRF1 regulates cardiac energetics in vivo."'
GSE11674-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify genes regulated by VE-cadherin expression, we compared a mouse VE-cadherin null cell line (VEC null) with the same line reconstituted with VE-cadherin wild type cDNA (VEC positive). The morphological and functional properties of these cell lines were described previously [Lampugnani,M.G. et al. Contact inhibition of VEGF-induced proliferation requires vascular endothelial cadherin, beta-catenin, and the phosphatase DEP-1/CD148. J. Cell Biol. 161, 793-804 (2003)]. By Affymetrix gene expression analysis we found several genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin, among which claudin-5 reached remarkably high levels. The up-regulation of these genes required not only VE-cadherin expression but also cell confluence suggesting that VE-cadherin clustering at junctions was needed."'
GSE11674-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify genes regulated by VE-cadherin expression, we compared a mouse VE-cadherin null cell line (VEC null) with the same line reconstituted with VE-cadherin wild type cDNA (VEC positive). The morphological and functional properties of these cell lines were described previously [Lampugnani,M.G. et al. Contact inhibition of VEGF-induced proliferation requires vascular endothelial cadherin, beta-catenin, and the phosphatase DEP-1/CD148. J. Cell Biol. 161, 793-804 (2003)]. By Affymetrix gene expression analysis we found several genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin, among which claudin-5 reached remarkably high levels. The up-regulation of these genes required not only VE-cadherin expression but also cell confluence suggesting that VE-cadherin clustering at junctions was needed."'
GSE11674-GPL81_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"VEC null or positive cells in the sparse and confluent conditions have been starved in MCDB 131 medium 1% BSA for 36 h. Next, RNA has been extracted with standard guanidinium isothiocyanate lysis buffer and cesium chloride ultracentrifugation. Synthesis of biotinylated cRNA targets, array hybridization (GeneChips MG_U74Av2 and MG_U74Bv2), staining and scanning were performed according to the Affymetrix standard protocols, starting from 15 μg of total RNA. Two copies of the GeneChips were hybridized with each cRNA sample. The MAS5 algorithm was used to determine the expression levels of mRNAs; the absolute analysis was performed using default parameters and scaling factor 500. Report files were extracted for each chip, and performance of labeled target was evaluated on the basis of several values (scaling factor, background and noise values, % present calls, average signal value, etc). Gene expression levels were normalized on the median over all samples. Annotation of Probe Sets is according to Affymetrix Annotation Tables (release May 31, 2007) [Vecchi,M. et al. Gene expression analysis of early and advanced gastric cancers. Oncogene 26, 4284-4294 (2007)]. We selected the genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin expression and clustering at junctions in confluent VEC positive cells."'
GSE11674-GPL82_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify genes regulated by VE-cadherin expression, we compared a mouse VE-cadherin null cell line (VEC null) with the same line reconstituted with VE-cadherin wild type cDNA (VEC positive). The morphological and functional properties of these cell lines were described previously [Lampugnani,M.G. et al. Contact inhibition of VEGF-induced proliferation requires vascular endothelial cadherin, beta-catenin, and the phosphatase DEP-1/CD148. J. Cell Biol. 161, 793-804 (2003)]. By Affymetrix gene expression analysis we found several genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin, among which claudin-5 reached remarkably high levels. The up-regulation of these genes required not only VE-cadherin expression but also cell confluence suggesting that VE-cadherin clustering at junctions was needed."'
GSE11674-GPL82_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify genes regulated by VE-cadherin expression, we compared a mouse VE-cadherin null cell line (VEC null) with the same line reconstituted with VE-cadherin wild type cDNA (VEC positive). The morphological and functional properties of these cell lines were described previously [Lampugnani,M.G. et al. Contact inhibition of VEGF-induced proliferation requires vascular endothelial cadherin, beta-catenin, and the phosphatase DEP-1/CD148. J. Cell Biol. 161, 793-804 (2003)]. By Affymetrix gene expression analysis we found several genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin, among which claudin-5 reached remarkably high levels. The up-regulation of these genes required not only VE-cadherin expression but also cell confluence suggesting that VE-cadherin clustering at junctions was needed."'
GSE11674-GPL82_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"VEC null or positive cells in the sparse and confluent conditions have been starved in MCDB 131 medium 1% BSA for 36 h. Next, RNA has been extracted with standard guanidinium isothiocyanate lysis buffer and cesium chloride ultracentrifugation. Synthesis of biotinylated cRNA targets, array hybridization (GeneChips MG_U74Av2 and MG_U74Bv2), staining and scanning were performed according to the Affymetrix standard protocols, starting from 15 μg of total RNA. Two copies of the GeneChips were hybridized with each cRNA sample. The MAS5 algorithm was used to determine the expression levels of mRNAs; the absolute analysis was performed using default parameters and scaling factor 500. Report files were extracted for each chip, and performance of labeled target was evaluated on the basis of several values (scaling factor, background and noise values, % present calls, average signal value, etc). Gene expression levels were normalized on the median over all samples. Annotation of Probe Sets is according to Affymetrix Annotation Tables (release May 31, 2007) [Vecchi,M. et al. Gene expression analysis of early and advanced gastric cancers. Oncogene 26, 4284-4294 (2007)]. We selected the genes up-regulated by VE-cadherin expression and clustering at junctions in confluent VEC positive cells."'
GSE11684_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from Perk wild-type and knockout mouse liver perfused without or with 2,5-di-tert-butylhydroquinone"'
GSE11684_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Perk wild-type or knockout mouse liver were perfused without or with 2,4-di-tert-butylhydroquinone (tBuHQ) for RNA extraction and hybridization of Affymetrix microarrays.  RNA was extracted from unfractionated liver samples and polysome fraction of samples separated on sucrose density gradient.  To minimize biological variations, we pooled RNA from two perfused liver samples to use in each array analysis.  The conditions were total and polysome fraction of Perk+/+, -tBuHQ or +tBuHQ; total and polysome fraction of Perk-/-, -tBuHQ or +tBuHQ.  Each array analysis was done in duplicate."'
GSE11698_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Microarray of Trex1 WT and Trex1 KO hearts on RAG2KO background"'
GSE11726_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We analyzed whether cochlear removal-induced transcriptional changes in the cochlear nucleus (CN) were due to loss of electrical activity in the 8th nerve.  Pharmacological activity blockade of the auditory nerve for 24 h resulted in similar expression changes for only a subset of genes.  Thus, an additional factor not dependent on action potential-mediated signaling must also regulate transcriptional responses to deafferentation in the CN.  "'
GSE11759_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: HNF4α is an important transcriptional regulator of hepatocyte and pancreatic function. Hnf4α deletion is embryonically lethal with severe defects in visceral endoderm formation, liver maturation and colon development.  However, the precise role of this transcription factor in maintaining homeostasis of the adult intestine remains unclear.  Herein, we aimed to elucidate the adult intestinal functions of Hnf4α.  Methods: A conditional intestinal epithelial Hnf4α knockout mouse was generated.  Histological abnormality of the colonic mucosa was assessed by immunodetection and Western.  Changes in global gene expression and biological network were analyzed.  Results: Hnf4α intestine null mice developed normally until reaching young adulthood. Crypt distortion became apparent in the Hnf4α null colon at 3 months of age followed by focal areas of crypt dropout, increased immune cell infiltrates, crypt hyperplasia and early signs of polyposis later in life.  A gene profiling analysis identified cell death and cell cycle related to cancer as the most significant sets of genes altered in the Hnf4α colon null mice.  Expression levels of the tight junction proteins claudin 4, 8 and 15 were altered early in the colon epithelium of Hnf4α mutants and correlated with increased barrier permeability to a molecular tracer that does not normally penetrate normal mucosa.  Conclusion: These observations support a functional role for Hnf4α in protecting the colonic mucosa against the initiation of the changes resembling inflammatory bowel diseases and polyp formation."'
GSE11759_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: HNF4α is an important transcriptional regulator of hepatocyte and pancreatic function. Hnf4α deletion is embryonically lethal with severe defects in visceral endoderm formation, liver maturation and colon development.  However, the precise role of this transcription factor in maintaining homeostasis of the adult intestine remains unclear.  Herein, we aimed to elucidate the adult intestinal functions of Hnf4α.  Methods: A conditional intestinal epithelial Hnf4α knockout mouse was generated.  Histological abnormality of the colonic mucosa was assessed by immunodetection and Western.  Changes in global gene expression and biological network were analyzed.  Results: Hnf4α intestine null mice developed normally until reaching young adulthood. Crypt distortion became apparent in the Hnf4α null colon at 3 months of age followed by focal areas of crypt dropout, increased immune cell infiltrates, crypt hyperplasia and early signs of polyposis later in life.  A gene profiling analysis identified cell death and cell cycle related to cancer as the most significant sets of genes altered in the Hnf4α colon null mice.  Expression levels of the tight junction proteins claudin 4, 8 and 15 were altered early in the colon epithelium of Hnf4α mutants and correlated with increased barrier permeability to a molecular tracer that does not normally penetrate normal mucosa.  Conclusion: These observations support a functional role for Hnf4α in protecting the colonic mucosa against the initiation of the changes resembling inflammatory bowel diseases and polyp formation."'
GSE11759_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: HNF4α is an important transcriptional regulator of hepatocyte and pancreatic function. Hnf4α deletion is embryonically lethal with severe defects in visceral endoderm formation, liver maturation and colon development.  However, the precise role of this transcription factor in maintaining homeostasis of the adult intestine remains unclear.  Herein, we aimed to elucidate the adult intestinal functions of Hnf4α.  Methods: A conditional intestinal epithelial Hnf4α knockout mouse was generated.  Histological abnormality of the colonic mucosa was assessed by immunodetection and Western.  Changes in global gene expression and biological network were analyzed.  Results: Hnf4α intestine null mice developed normally until reaching young adulthood. Crypt distortion became apparent in the Hnf4α null colon at 3 months of age followed by focal areas of crypt dropout, increased immune cell infiltrates, crypt hyperplasia and early signs of polyposis later in life.  A gene profiling analysis identified cell death and cell cycle related to cancer as the most significant sets of genes altered in the Hnf4α colon null mice.  Expression levels of the tight junction proteins claudin 4, 8 and 15 were altered early in the colon epithelium of Hnf4α mutants and correlated with increased barrier permeability to a molecular tracer that does not normally penetrate normal mucosa.  Conclusion: These observations support a functional role for Hnf4α in protecting the colonic mucosa against the initiation of the changes resembling inflammatory bowel diseases and polyp formation."'
GSE11759_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"HNF4alpha was conditionally knockout in the mouse epithelial colon with the villin CRE. A total of 3 control and 3 mutant littermates individuals were sacrificed at 1 year of age.  The colon was harvested and Total RNA was isolated from each individuals.  Each RNA sample was independently used to generate probes to screen affymetrix chips."'
GSE11766_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Levels of C/EBPα are low in myeloid blast crisis (BC) of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and its expression in p210BCR/ABL-expressing hematopoietic cells induces granulocytic differentiation, inhibits proliferation and suppresses leukemogenesis.  To assess the mechanisms involved in these effects, C/EBPα targets were identified  by microarray analyses.  Upon C/EBPα activation, expression of c-Myb and GATA-2 was  repressed in 32D-BCR/ABL, K562 and CML-BC primary cells but only c-Myb levels decreased slightly   in CD34+ normal progenitors. The role of these two genes for the biological effects of C/EBPα was assessed by perturbing their expression in K562 cells. Expression of c-Myb blocked the proliferation inhibition and differentiation-inducing effects of C/EBPα while c-Myb siRNA treatment enhanced C/EBPα-mediated proliferation inhibition and induced changes in gene expression indicative of monocytic  differentiation. GATA-2 expression suppressed the proliferation inhibitory effect of C/EBPα but blocked in part the effect on differentiation; GATA-2 siRNA treatment had no effects on C/EBPα induction of differentiation but inhibited proliferation of K562 cells, alone or upon C/EBPα activation. In summary, the effects of C/EBPα in p210BCR/ABL -expressing cells depend, in part, on transcriptional repression of c-Myb and GATA-2.  Since perturbation of c-Myb and GATA-2 expression has non identical consequences for proliferation and differentiation of K562 cells, the effects of C/EBPα appear to involve different transcription-regulated targets."'
GSE11766_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"48 samples total. 4-HT-treated 32D-BCR/ABL cells transduced with the MigRI empty vector, MigRI WT C/EBPα-ER , MigRI K298E C/EBPα-ER  (a DNA binding-deficient mutant) or MigRI-delta(177-191) C/EBPα-ER  (a mutant deficient in CDK2/CDK4 interaction). Total RNA was extracted at 0, 6, 9 and 12h post-4-HT treatment in triplicate and hybridized onto the Affymetrix MOE430 _2 array."'
GSE11775_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Foxp3-deficient Treg cells do not revert into conventional Effector CD4+ T cells but constitute a unique cell subset"'
GSE11788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Norepinephrine transporter-deficient neural crest cells"'
GSE11788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The goal of this study was to determine the transcriptional consequences of norepinephrine transporter (NET) gene deletion in noradrenergic neuron differentiation. The norepinephrine transporter (NET) is the target of powerful mind-altering substances, such as tricyclic antidepressants and the drug of abuse, cocaine. NET function in adult noradrenergic neurons of the peripheral and central nervous systems is that of a scavenger that internalizes norepinephrine from the synaptic cleft. By contrast, norepinephrine (NE) transport has a different role in embryogenesis. It promotes differentiation of neural crest cells and locus ceruleus progenitors into noradrenergic neurons, whereas NET inhibitors, such as the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine and the drug of abuse, cocaine, inhibit noradrenergic differentiation. While NET structure und regulation of NET function is well described, little is known about downstream targets of NE transport."'
GSE11788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Results: We have determined by long serial analysis of gene expression (LongSAGE) the gene expression profiles of in vitro differentiating wild type and norepinephrine transporter-deficient (NETKO) neural crest derivatives. Comparison analyses with the wild type library (GSM 105765) have identified a number of important differentially expressed genes, including genes relevant to noradrenergic neuron differentiation and to the phenotype of NETKO mice. Furthermore we have identified novel differentially expressed genes."'
GSE11809_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Mycobacterium avium infection in mice induces granuloma necrosis in the lung which is dependent on IFNg. IRF1 is a transcription factor activated by IFNg signaling. The effect of IFNg and IRF1 on immunopathology and transcriptional changes in the lung were analysed using gene-deficient mice."'
GSE11818_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"A new Treg-specific, FoxP3-GFP-hCre BAC transgenic was crossed to a conditional Dicer knock-out mouse strain to analyze the role of microRNAs (miRNA) in the development and function of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Although thymic Tregs developed normally in this setting, the cells showed evidence of altered differentiation and dysfunction in the periphery. Dicer-deficient Treg lineage cells failed to remain stable as a subset of cells down-regulated the Treg-specific transcription factor, FoxP3, while the majority expressed altered levels of multiple genes and proteins (including Neuropilin 1, GITR and CTLA-4) associated with the Treg fingerprint. In fact, a significant percentage of the Treg lineage cells took on a Th memory phenotype including increased levels of CD127, IL-4, and interferon-g. Importantly, Dicer-deficient Tregs lost suppression activity in vivo; the mice rapidly developed fatal systemic autoimmune disease resembling the FoxP3 knockout phenotype. These results support a central role for miRNAs in maintaining the stability of differentiated Treg function in vivo and homeostasis of the adaptive immune system."'
GSE11818_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A new Treg-specific, FoxP3-GFP-hCre BAC transgenic was crossed to a conditional Dicer knock-out mouse strain to analyze the role of microRNAs (miRNA) in the development and function of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Although thymic Tregs developed normally in this setting, the cells showed evidence of altered differentiation and dysfunction in the periphery. Dicer-deficient Treg lineage cells failed to remain stable as a subset of cells down-regulated the Treg-specific transcription factor, FoxP3, while the majority expressed altered levels of multiple genes and proteins (including Neuropilin 1, GITR and CTLA-4) associated with the Treg fingerprint. In fact, a significant percentage of the Treg lineage cells took on a Th memory phenotype including increased levels of CD127, IL-4, and interferon-g. Importantly, Dicer-deficient Tregs lost suppression activity in vivo; the mice rapidly developed fatal systemic autoimmune disease resembling the FoxP3 knockout phenotype. These results support a central role for miRNAs in maintaining the stability of differentiated Treg function in vivo and homeostasis of the adaptive immune system."'
GSE11818_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"A new Treg-specific, FoxP3-GFP-hCre BAC transgenic was crossed to a conditional Dicer knock-out mouse strain to analyze the role of microRNAs (miRNA) in the development and function of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Although thymic Tregs developed normally in this setting, the cells showed evidence of altered differentiation and dysfunction in the periphery. Dicer-deficient Treg lineage cells failed to remain stable as a subset of cells down-regulated the Treg-specific transcription factor, FoxP3, while the majority expressed altered levels of multiple genes and proteins (including Neuropilin 1, GITR and CTLA-4) associated with the Treg fingerprint. In fact, a significant percentage of the Treg lineage cells took on a Th memory phenotype including increased levels of CD127, IL-4, and interferon-g. Importantly, Dicer-deficient Tregs lost suppression activity in vivo; the mice rapidly developed fatal systemic autoimmune disease resembling the FoxP3 knockout phenotype. These results support a central role for miRNAs in maintaining the stability of differentiated Treg function in vivo and homeostasis of the adaptive immune system."'
GSE11818_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lymph node CD4+YFP+ T cells from FoxP3-GFP-hCre x ROSA26R-YFP Dicerwt/lox (Het) and FoxP3-GFP-hCre x ROSA26R-YFP Dicerlox/lox (KO) mice were isolated by flow cytometry. Triplicate GeneChips were used for each T cell population."'
GSE11821_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: comparison between WT and KO"'
GSE11821_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cochleae from two E18.5 were isolated from both Igf-1+/+ wild type and Igf-1-/- null mice and pooled to obtain RNA. Heterozygous male and female with a genetic background C57BL/6J were mated to obtain embryos 18.5 days post coitus (E18.5). Three independent pools were used. Cochlear tissues included the otic capsule but not vestibular tissues."'
GSE11843_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We have identified loss of deiminated MA-Brent-1 (an RNA and export binding protein) in the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in multiple sclerosis and in glaucoma eyes compared to normal controls. Deimination refers to posttranslational modification of protein bound arginine (not free arginine) in citrulline. Our preliminary studies suggest binding of different repertoire of RNA by non-deiminated and deiminated MA-Brent-1. In vitro, in neurites of cultured RGCs and hippocampal neurons, the select mRNA translation is enhanced by addition of deiminated but not non-deiminated MA-Brent-1. These observations suggest that lack of deiminated MA-Brent-1 has consequences for protein synthesis, remodeling and plasticity of RGCs/neurons. Identification of RNA species bound by deiminated and non-deiminated MA-Brent-1 will enable us there further verification and determining the role that deimination plays in biological function of MA-Brent-1 in multiple sclerosis and glaucoma. To summarize identification of RNA species bound by deiminated and non deiminated MA-Brent-1 will enable us to gain further insight into role of deimination in the overall disease process."'
GSE11844_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Mouse Igf1 null publication analysis"'
GSE11844_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: comparison between WT and KO"'
GSE11844_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cochleae from two E18.5 were isolated from both Igf-1+/+ wild type and Igf-1-/- null mice and pooled to obtain RNA. Heterozygous male and female with a genetic background C57BL/6J were mated to obtain embryos 18.5 days post coitus (E18.5). Three independent pools were used. Cochlear tissues included the otic capsule but not vestibular tissues."'
GSE11884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Furin is a proprotein convertase induced in activated T cells, reported to processes the anti-inflammatory cytokine TGFb-1.  Herein, we show that conditional deletion of furin in T cells allowed for normal T cell development but impaired the function of regulatory T cells and effector cells, which produced less TGFb-1.  Furin-deficient Treg cells, were less protective in a T cell transfer colitis model and failed to induce Foxp3 in normal T cells. Furin-deficient effector cells were inherently overly active and were resistant to suppressive activity of wild-type Tregs. Thus, our results indicate that furin is indispensable in maintaining peripheral tolerance, which is due, at least in part, to its nonredundant, essential function in regulating TGFb-1 production.  Targeting furin has emerged as a strategy in malignant and infectious disease.  The current work suggests that inhibiting furin might activate immune responses, but may result in a breakdown in peripheral tolerance. "'
GSE11884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Furin is a proprotein convertase induced in activated T cells, reported to processes the anti-inflammatory cytokine TGFb-1.  Herein, we show that conditional deletion of furin in T cells allowed for normal T cell development but impaired the function of regulatory T cells and effector cells, which produced less TGFb-1.  Furin-deficient Treg cells, were less protective in a T cell transfer colitis model and failed to induce Foxp3 in normal T cells. Furin-deficient effector cells were inherently overly active and were resistant to suppressive activity of wild-type Tregs. Thus, our results indicate that furin is indispensable in maintaining peripheral tolerance, which is due, at least in part, to its nonredundant, essential function in regulating TGFb-1 production.  Targeting furin has emerged as a strategy in malignant and infectious disease.  The current work suggests that inhibiting furin might activate immune responses, but may result in a breakdown in peripheral tolerance. "'
GSE11884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Naive CD4+ CD62L+ CD44- T cells were isolated from Fur flox/flox and CD4 cre Fur flox/flox mice. Replicated samples were achieved for wild type and knockout conditions."'
GSE11890_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"PKGI WT vs KO BAT"'
GSE11897-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11897-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Lhx8 is a member of the LIM-homeobox transcription factor family and preferentially expressed in oocytes and germ cells within the mouse ovary. We discovered that Lhx8 knockout females lose oocytes within 7 days after birth. At the time of birth, histological examination shows that Lhx8 deficient (Lhx8(-/-)) ovaries are grossly similar to the newborn wild type ovaries. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries fail to maintain the primordial follicles and the transition from primordial to growing follicles does not occur. Lhx8(-/-) ovaries misexpress oocyte-specific genes such as Gdf9, Pou5f1, and Nobox. Very rapid loss of oocytes may partly be due to drastic the down-regulation of Kit and Kitl in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries. We compared Lhx8(-/-) and wild-type ovaries using Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarray platform. Eighty (44%) of 180 of the genes down-regulated more than 5-fold in Lhx8(-/-) ovaries were preferentially expressed in oocytes, whereas only 3 (2%) of 146 genes up-regulated more than 5-fold in the absence of Lhx8 were preferentially expressed in oocytes. In addition, the comparison of genes regulated in Lhx8(-/-) and Nobox(-/-) newborn ovaries discovered a common set of 34 genes whose expression level is affected in both Lhx8 and Nobox deficient mice. Our findings show that Lhx8 is a critical factor for maintenance and differentiation of the oocyte during early oogenesis and it acts in part by down-regulating the Nobox pathway."'
GSE11899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in Dicer-deficient mouse liver"'
GSE11899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: MiRNAs are small (~22 nucleotide), non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression through imperfect complementarity with target messenger RNAs. The function of miRNA in mammalian organogenesis is largely unknown. Conditional loss-of-function of Dicer, the enzyme that processes precursor miRNA transcripts into their mature, active form, has been shown to cause severe defects in a number of organ systems. Here we address the role of Dicer in liver development and function. Methods: Mice lacking Dicer function in hepatocytes were generated using an Afp-Cre strain to drive deletion of a floxed Dicer allele. Deletion of the flox-dicer allele was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Decreased miRNA levels detected by quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization confirmed loss of Dicer function. Gene expression microarray analysis was performed on liver RNA from P28 mutant and control mice. Liver sections from mutant and control mice ranging from embryonic stages through 3-4 months of age were examined and liver function tests were performed on adult mice. Results: Mice lacking hepatocyte Dicer function were born alive at the expected frequency, and had grossly normal appearance and behavior. Despite the loss of mature miRNA, hepatic function was normal, as reflected by normal blood gludose, albumin, cholesterol, and bilirubin. However, mutant mice between 2-4 months of age exhibit progressive hepatocyte damage, elevated ALT/AST, with evidence of balanced proliferation and apoptosis in the lobule. Microarray analysis indicates large-scale changes in gene expression, with increased expression of many miRNA targets, as well as imprinted genes. Conclusions: Loss of miRNA processing in the liver at late gestation has a remarkably mild phenotype, suggesting that miRNAs do not play an essential role in hepatic physiology. However, miRNA deficiency results in hepatocyte apoptosis and balanced hepatocyte regeneration. Finally, microarray analysis of gene expression in mutant liver suggests a previously unrecognized role for Dicer in the repression of imprinted genes."'
GSE11899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: MiRNAs are small (~22 nucleotide), non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression through imperfect complementarity with target messenger RNAs. The function of miRNA in mammalian organogenesis is largely unknown. Conditional loss-of-function of Dicer, the enzyme that processes precursor miRNA transcripts into their mature, active form, has been shown to cause severe defects in a number of organ systems. Here we address the role of Dicer in liver development and function. Methods: Mice lacking Dicer function in hepatocytes were generated using an Afp-Cre strain to drive deletion of a floxed Dicer allele. Deletion of the flox-dicer allele was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Decreased miRNA levels detected by quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization confirmed loss of Dicer function. Gene expression microarray analysis was performed on liver RNA from P28 mutant and control mice. Liver sections from mutant and control mice ranging from embryonic stages through 3-4 months of age were examined and liver function tests were performed on adult mice. Results: Mice lacking hepatocyte Dicer function were born alive at the expected frequency, and had grossly normal appearance and behavior. Despite the loss of mature miRNA, hepatic function was normal, as reflected by normal blood gludose, albumin, cholesterol, and bilirubin. However, mutant mice between 2-4 months of age exhibit progressive hepatocyte damage, elevated ALT/AST, with evidence of balanced proliferation and apoptosis in the lobule. Microarray analysis indicates large-scale changes in gene expression, with increased expression of many miRNA targets, as well as imprinted genes. Conclusions: Loss of miRNA processing in the liver at late gestation has a remarkably mild phenotype, suggesting that miRNAs do not play an essential role in hepatic physiology. However, miRNA deficiency results in hepatocyte apoptosis and balanced hepatocyte regeneration. Finally, microarray analysis of gene expression in mutant liver suggests a previously unrecognized role for Dicer in the repression of imprinted genes."'
GSE11899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Background & Aims: MiRNAs are small (~22 nucleotide), non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression through imperfect complementarity with target messenger RNAs. The function of miRNA in mammalian organogenesis is largely unknown. Conditional loss-of-function of Dicer, the enzyme that processes precursor miRNA transcripts into their mature, active form, has been shown to cause severe defects in a number of organ systems. Here we address the role of Dicer in liver development and function. Methods: Mice lacking Dicer function in hepatocytes were generated using an Afp-Cre strain to drive deletion of a floxed Dicer allele. Deletion of the flox-dicer allele was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Decreased miRNA levels detected by quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization confirmed loss of Dicer function. Gene expression microarray analysis was performed on liver RNA from P28 mutant and control mice. Liver sections from mutant and control mice ranging from embryonic stages through 3-4 months of age were examined and liver function tests were performed on adult mice. Results: Mice lacking hepatocyte Dicer function were born alive at the expected frequency, and had grossly normal appearance and behavior. Despite the loss of mature miRNA, hepatic function was normal, as reflected by normal blood gludose, albumin, cholesterol, and bilirubin. However, mutant mice between 2-4 months of age exhibit progressive hepatocyte damage, elevated ALT/AST, with evidence of balanced proliferation and apoptosis in the lobule. Microarray analysis indicates large-scale changes in gene expression, with increased expression of many miRNA targets, as well as imprinted genes. Conclusions: Loss of miRNA processing in the liver at late gestation has a remarkably mild phenotype, suggesting that miRNAs do not play an essential role in hepatic physiology. However, miRNA deficiency results in hepatocyte apoptosis and balanced hepatocyte regeneration. Finally, microarray analysis of gene expression in mutant liver suggests a previously unrecognized role for Dicer in the repression of imprinted genes."'
GSE11910_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Using isolation stress model, we showed that goblet cell-dependent mucosal barrier functions in the mouse rectum was more vulnerable to stress than the colon. We also found that isolation stress specifically stimulated IL-18 production only in the rectum. Furthermore, the crucial role of IL-18 in the stress response of the mouse rectum was confirmed using IL-18 knockout mice. Microarray analysis was used to assess the stress response and to identify responsible genes for the vulnerability of the mouse rectum to isolation stress."'
GSE11910_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was prepared from the colon and the rectum of wild-type and IL-18 knockout mice before isolation and 8 days after starting isolation. The one GSM sample of microarray analysis was made by pooling an equal amount of total RNA 5 mice of each group. Agilent whole mouse genome oligonucleotide microarray was used to measure gene expression in these samples according to the manufacture’s protocol."'
GSE11933_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression changes in femur bone induced by acute skeletal muscle unloading, which leads to physiological changes including muscle atrophy, weakness and results in bone remodelling and subsequent loss of bone mass, was investigated by hind-limb suspension (HLS) treatment of Male ICR mice (28–32 g body wt; Harlan, Indianapolis, IN). AgilentTM Whole Mouse Genome Oligo Microarrays were utilised to examine the effects of HLS on mRNA expression profiles of the femur bone in the hindlimbs of freely ambulating control and 24h HLS treated mice. Five independent biological replicates of this experiment were carried out."'
GSE11973_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Wild-type cultured neutrophils versus miR-223 null cultured neutrophils "'
GSE11973_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"This array analysis is to study the regulation of target messages’ expression in in vitro cultured murine neutrophils versus miR-223 null neutrophils.  Culture media was SILAC-IMDM for MS analysis."'
GSE11973_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild-type cultured neutrophils versus miR-223 null cultured neutrophils "'
GSE11982_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from WT and E2A-KO bone marrow stem and progenitor cell subfractions."'
GSE11982_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Expression profiling of WT and E2A-KO LSK FLT3- and LMPP protenitor cells."'
GSE11982_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"LSK FLT3- and LMPP stem/progenitor cells from WT and E2A-KO mice were FACS sorted. Subsequently RNA was extracted, labelled and hybridized to Affymetrix microarrays. Goal of experiment was to investigate expression changes between WT and KO LMPP cells."'
GSE11990_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiling of mouse p53-deficient epidermal carcinoma defines molecular determinants of human cancer malignancy (training dataset)"'
GSE11990_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The epidermal specific ablation of Trp53 gene leads to the spontaneous development of aggressive tumors in mice through a process that is accelerated by the simultaneous ablation of Rb gene. Since alterations of p53-dependent pathway are common hallmarks of aggressive, poor prognostic human cancers, these mouse models can recapitulate the molecular features of some of these human malignancies. To evaluate this possibility, gene expression microarray analysis was performed in mouse samples. The mouse tumors display increased expression of cell cycle and chromosomal instability associated genes. Remarkably, they are also enriched in human embryonic stem cell gene signatures, a characteristic feature of human aggressive tumors. Using cross-species comparison and meta-analytical approaches, we also observed that spontaneous mouse tumors display robust similarities with gene expression profiles of human tumors bearing mutated TP53, or displaying poor prognostic outcome, from multiple body tissues. We have obtained a 20-gene signature whose genes are overexpressed in mouse tumors and can identify human tumors with poor outcome from breast cancer, astrocytoma and multiple myeloma. This signature was consistently overexpressed in additional mouse tumors using microarray analysis. Two of the genes of this signature, AURKA and UBE2C, were validated in human breast and cervical cancer as potential biomarkers of malignancy. Our analyses demonstrate that these mouse models are promising preclinical tools aimed to search for malignancy biomarkers and to test targeted therapies of prospective use in human aggressive tumors and/or with p53 mutation or inactivation."'
GSE12000-GPL3562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Obesity study in transgenic and knockout animals"'
GSE12000-GPL3562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A major task in dissecting the genetics of complex traits is to identify causal genes for disease phenotypes.  We previously developed a method to infer causal relationships among genes through the integration of DNA variation, gene transcription, and phenotypic information.  Here we validated our method through the characterization of transgenic and knockout mouse models of candidate genes that were predicted to be causal for abdominal obesity.  Perturbation of eight out of the nine genes, with Gas7, Me1 and Gpx3 being novel, resulted in significant changes in obesity related traits.  Liver expression signatures revealed alterations in common metabolic pathways and networks contributing to abdominal obesity and overlapped with a macrophage-enriched metabolic network module that is highly associated with metabolic traits in mice and humans.  Integration of gene expression in the design and analysis of traditional F2 intercross studies allows high confidence prediction of causal genes, and identification of involved pathways and networks."'
GSE12000-GPL3677_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Obesity study in transgenic and knockout animals"'
GSE12000-GPL3677_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A major task in dissecting the genetics of complex traits is to identify causal genes for disease phenotypes.  We previously developed a method to infer causal relationships among genes through the integration of DNA variation, gene transcription, and phenotypic information.  Here we validated our method through the characterization of transgenic and knockout mouse models of candidate genes that were predicted to be causal for abdominal obesity.  Perturbation of eight out of the nine genes, with Gas7, Me1 and Gpx3 being novel, resulted in significant changes in obesity related traits.  Liver expression signatures revealed alterations in common metabolic pathways and networks contributing to abdominal obesity and overlapped with a macrophage-enriched metabolic network module that is highly associated with metabolic traits in mice and humans.  Integration of gene expression in the design and analysis of traditional F2 intercross studies allows high confidence prediction of causal genes, and identification of involved pathways and networks."'
GSE12000-GPL4865_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Obesity study in transgenic and knockout animals"'
GSE12000-GPL4865_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A major task in dissecting the genetics of complex traits is to identify causal genes for disease phenotypes.  We previously developed a method to infer causal relationships among genes through the integration of DNA variation, gene transcription, and phenotypic information.  Here we validated our method through the characterization of transgenic and knockout mouse models of candidate genes that were predicted to be causal for abdominal obesity.  Perturbation of eight out of the nine genes, with Gas7, Me1 and Gpx3 being novel, resulted in significant changes in obesity related traits.  Liver expression signatures revealed alterations in common metabolic pathways and networks contributing to abdominal obesity and overlapped with a macrophage-enriched metabolic network module that is highly associated with metabolic traits in mice and humans.  Integration of gene expression in the design and analysis of traditional F2 intercross studies allows high confidence prediction of causal genes, and identification of involved pathways and networks."'
GSE12001_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Wild-type neutrophils and miR-223 null neutrophils"'
GSE12001_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"This array analysis is to study the regulation of target messages’ expression in murine neutrophils versus miR-223 null neutrophils.  "'
GSE12001_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three arrays for wild-type neutrophils and miR-223 null neutrophils"'
GSE12003_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"4 days cultured progenitors and 8 days cultured mature neutrophils from WT vs miR-223 null neutrophils"'
GSE12003_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"This array analysis is to study developmental time course of the regulation of target messages’ expression during culture of murine neutrophils versus miR-223 null neutrophils.  Culture media was SILAC-IMDM for MS analysis."'
GSE12003_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two arrays of each for 4 days cultured progenitors and 8 days cultured mature neutrophils from wild-type cultured neutrophils versus miR-223 null cultured neutrophils"'
GSE12008-GPL4134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"LMX1B is a LIM-homeodomain transcription factor essential for development. Putative LMX1B target genes have been identified through mouse gene targeting studies; however, in the absence of in vivo molecular characterization of their regulation, their identity as direct LMX1B targets remains hypothetical. We describe here the first molecular characterization of LMX1B target gene regulation. A tetracycline-inducible expression system and microarray analysis showed that a subset of NF-kappa B target genes, including IL-6 and IL-8 are upregulated in LMX1B-expressing HeLa cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that LMX1B binds to the proximal promoter region of IL-6 and IL-8 in vivo, in the vicinity of the characterized kappa B site, and that LMX1B recruitment correlates with an increased NF-kappa B DNA association. Inhibition of NF-kappa B activity by short interfering RNA-mediated knock-down of p65 impairs LMX1B-dependent induction of NF-kappa B target genes, while activation of NF-kappa B activity by TNF-alpha results in a synergistic induction of these genes by LMX1B. IL-6 promoter-driven reporter assays showed that the kappa B site and an adjacent putative LMX1B binding motif are both involved in LMX1B-mediated transcription. Expression of a number of NF-kappa B target genes is affected in the kidney of Lmx1b-/- knock-out mice, thus supporting the biological relevance of the data obtained in the human cell line. Together, these data demonstrate for the first time that LMX1B directly regulates transcription of a subset of NF-kappa B target genes in cooperation with nuclear p50/p65 NF-kappa B."'
GSE12008-GPL4134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mouse subset (GSM304379-GSM304384): Three kidney samples from newborn wild-type mice and from newborn Lmx1b-/- knock-out mice were processed for gene expression array analyses using an Agilent platform."'
GSE12028_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Modulation of colon inflammation in interleukin-10 gene-deficient mice via dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid"'
GSE12028_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Dietary n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids can reduce inflammation via a range of mechanisms. This study tested the effect of dietary eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on intestinal inflammation using interleukin-10 gene-deficient (Il10-/-) mice. Methods: At 35 days of age, 12 weaned Il10-/- and 12 C57 mice were randomly assigned to one of two modified AIN-76A diets, supplemented with 3.7% purified ethyl esters of either EPA (n-3) or oleic acid (OA, control). To identify genes relevant to colon inflammation, transcription profiling (microarrays and qRT-PCR) and bioinformatic analyses were used. Results: In this study, dietary EPA reversed the decrease in colon fatty acid β-oxidation gene expression observed in OA-fed Il10-/- compared to C57 mice. Il10-/- mice fed the OA diet showed decreased expression of antioxidant enzyme genes, as well as those involved in detoxification of xenobiotics, compared to C57 mice on the same diet. In contrast, dietary EPA increased the expression of these genes in Il10-/- mice. Conclusions: These data indicate that dietary EPA induced endogenous lipid oxidation which might have a potential anti-inflammatory effect on colon tissue. This is supported by the activation of the Ppara gene that regulates the expression of pro-inflammatory and immunomodulatory genes and proteins."'
GSE12038_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"XBP1 is the transcriptino factor that is activated by the ER stress. XBP1 is known to induce the ER dexpansion and increase the expression of the ER chaperone genes to prtect the cell from the ER stress. We generated a mouse strain that lacked XBP1 specifically in the mouse intestine by breeding the XBP1flox mice with Villin-cre mice. Here we examined genes that are differentially expressed between WT and XBP1 KO mouse intestine to identify genes that are downstream of XBP1."'
GSE12049_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from laminin alpha 2 chain deficient mice vs wild type"'
GSE12049_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Mutations in the gene encoding laminin a2 chain cause congenital muscular dystrophy, MDC1A. In skeletal muscle, laminin a2 chain binds at least two receptor complexes; the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex and integrin a7b1. To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying this disorder, we performed gene expression profiling of laminin a2 chain deficient mouse limb muscle. One of the down-regulated genes encodes a protein called calcium and integrin binding protein 2 (Cib2) whose expression and function is unknown. However, the closely related Cib1 has been reported to bind integrin aIIb and may be involved in outside-in-signaling in platelets. Since Cib2 might be a novel integrin a7b1 binding protein in muscle, we have studied Cib2 expression in the developing and adult mouse. Cib2 mRNA is mainly expressed in the developing central nervous system and in developing and adult skeletal muscle. In skeletal muscle Cib2 colocalizes with integrin a7B subunit at the sarcolemma and at the neuromuscular- and myotendinous junctions. Finally, we demonstrate that Cib2 is a calcium binding protein that interacts with integrin a7Bb1D. Thus, our data suggest a role for Cib2 as a cytoplasmic effector of integrin a7Bb1D signaling in skeletal muscle"'
GSE12049_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Skeletal muscle (all hind limb skeletal muscle) from 4-weeks old laminin alpha 2 chain deficient mice and 4-weeks old wild type mice were isolated individually and RNA were extracted and hybridized on Affiymetrix microarrys. Three biological replicates from each group were analyzed."'
GSE12078_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Ctr9 knockdown in mouse ES cells"'
GSE12111_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"It has long been known that excessive mitotic activity due to H-Ras can block keratinocyte differentiation and cause skin cancer. It is not clear, however, whether there are any innate surveillants that ensure keratinocytes undergoing terminal differentiation, preventing the disease. IKKα induces keratinocyte terminal differentiation and its reduction promotes skin tumor development. However, its nature function in skin cancer is unknown. Here we found that mice with IKKα deletion in keratinocytes or in hair follicle keratinocytes developed a thickened epidermis and spontaneous squamous cell-like carcinomas. Inactivation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or reintroduction of IKKα inhibited excessive mitosis, induced terminal differentiation, and prevented skin cancer through an EGFR-driven autocrine loop in mice. Thus, IKKα serves as an innate surveillant. "'
GSE12126-GPL3793_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"	Recent genome-scale ChIP-chip studies of transcription factors have shown that a low percentage of experimentally determined binding sites contain the consensus motif for the immunoprecipitated factor.  In most cases, differences between in vivo target sites that contain or lack a consensus motif have not been explored.  We have previously shown that most sites to which E2F family members are bound in vivo do not contain E2F consensus motifs. The main purpose of this study was to develop an understanding of how E2F binding specificity is achieved in vivo. In particular, we have addressed how E2F family members are recruited to core promoter regions that lack a consensus motif and are excluded from other regions that contain a consensus motif.  Using promoter and ENCODE arrays, we have shown that the predominant factors specifying whether E2F is recruited to an in vivo binding site are a) the site must be in a core promoter and b) the promoter region must be utilized as a promoter by the transcriptional machinery in that particular cell type.  We have tested three models for recruitment of E2F to core promoters lacking a consensus site, including a) indirect recruitment, b) looping to the core promoter mediated by an E2F bound to a distal consensus motif, and c) assisted binding of E2F to a site that weakly resembles an E2F consensus motif within the core promoter.  To test these models, we developed a new in vivo assay, termed eChIP, which allows analysis of transcription factor binding to isolated promoter fragments.  Our findings suggest that in vivo a) the presence of a consensus motif is not sufficient to recruit E2Fs, b) E2Fs can bind to isolated regions that lack a consensus motif, and c) binding can require regions other than the best match to the E2F PWM in the core promoter."'
GSE12134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Understanding the mechanisms that specify neuronal subtypes is important to unravel the complex mechanisms of neuronal circuit assembly. Here we have identified a novel role for the transcription factor AP2γ in progenitor and neuronal subtype specification in the cerebral cortex. Conditional deletion of AP2γ causes misspecification of basal progenitors starting at"'
GSE12134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"mid-neurogenesis and gain-of-function experiments show that AP2γ directly regulates the expression of several genes characteristic for basal progenitors, such as Math3 and Tbr2. The misspecification of basal progenitors upon loss of AP2γ resulted in their increased death and"'
GSE12134_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"We analysed 12 samples from the cortex (rostral and caudal) of AP2gamma k.o. mice and control mice. For each of the 4 groups (caudal ko, caudal wt, rostral ko, rostral wt) three biological replicates were analysed."'
GSE12135_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from Emx2 wildtype and knockout olfactory epithelium"'
GSE12135_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Emx2 is a homeobox transcription factor that plays a critical role in development. Olfactory sensory neuron axons from Emx2 knockout mice fail to innervate their target tissue, the olfactory bulb. Homeobox transcription factors may also play an important role in olfactory receptor expression."'
GSE12135_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to analyze differences in mRNA abundance in the olfactory epithelium of Emx2 wildtype and knockout embryonic day 18.5 mice."'
GSE12135_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA from 9 Emx2 wildtype and 9 Emx2 knockout mice was analyzed. Equal amounts of RNA from 3 animals was pooled to create one biological sample, 3 pools per genotype, 6 chips total. RNA was hybridized to the Affymetrix Mouse Exon 1.0 ST array."'
GSE12183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the major risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nevertheless, transgenic mice which express the whole HCV polyprotein (HCV-Tg) do not develop HCC. Whereas chronic HCV infection causes inflammation in patients, in HCV-Tg mice, the host immune reaction against viral proteins is lacking. We aimed to test the role of HCV proteins in HCC development on the background of chronic inflammation in vivo."'
GSE12183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We crossed the HCV-Tg mice which do not produce HCC with the Mdr2-knockout (Mdr2-KO) mice which develop inflammation-associated HCC, to generate Mdr2-KO/HCV-Tg mice. We studied the effect of the HCV transgene on tumor incidence, hepatocyte mitosis and apoptosis, and on gene expression in the liver of produced mice."'
GSE12183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"We crossed the HCV-Tg mice which do not produce HCC with the Mdr2-knockout (Mdr2-KO) mice which develop inflammation-associated HCC, to generate Mdr2-KO/HCV-Tg mice. We studied the effect of the HCV transgene on tumor incidence, hepatocyte mitosis and apoptosis, and on gene expression in the liver of produced mice."'
GSE12183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"The expression profile of HCV-Tg and not HCV-Tg mice on the MDR2-KO and control MDR2-heterozygous background had been tested. The non-tumorous liver tissue from 4 non-HCV-Tg Mdr2-heterozygous female mice, 5 HCV-Tg Mdr2-heterozygous female mice, 5 non-HCV-Tg Mdr2-KO female mice, 5 HCV-Tg Mdr2-KO female mice and  6 tumors developed by  HCV-Tg MDR2-KO mice were submitted to the gene expression profiling. The non tumorous match of tumorous samples number 1-4 are HCV-Tg MDR2-KO samples 1-4, of tumorous sample 5,6 - HCV-Tg MDR2-KO sample 5."'
GSE12185-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the major risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nevertheless, transgenic mice which express the whole HCV polyprotein (HCV-Tg) do not develop HCC. Whereas chronic HCV infection causes inflammation in patients, in HCV-Tg mice, the host immune reaction against viral proteins is lacking. We aimed to test the role of HCV proteins in HCC development on the background of chronic inflammation in vivo."'
GSE12185-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We crossed the HCV-Tg mice which do not produce HCC with the Mdr2-knockout (Mdr2-KO) mice which develop inflammation-associated HCC, to generate Mdr2-KO/HCV-Tg mice. We studied the effect of the HCV transgene on tumor incidence, hepatocyte mitosis and apoptosis, and on gene expression in the liver of produced mice."'
GSE12185-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"We crossed the HCV-Tg mice which do not produce HCC with the Mdr2-knockout (Mdr2-KO) mice which develop inflammation-associated HCC, to generate Mdr2-KO/HCV-Tg mice. We studied the effect of the HCV transgene on tumor incidence, hepatocyte mitosis and apoptosis, and on gene expression in the liver of produced mice."'
GSE12185-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"The expression profile of HCV-Tg and not HCV-Tg mice on the MDR2-KO and control MDR2-heterozygous background had been tested. The non-tumorous liver tissue from 4 non-HCV-Tg Mdr2-heterozygous female mice, 5 HCV-Tg Mdr2-heterozygous female mice, 5 non-HCV-Tg Mdr2-KO female mice, 5 HCV-Tg Mdr2-KO female mice and  6 tumors developed by  HCV-Tg MDR2-KO mice were submitted to the gene expression profiling. The non tumorous match of tumorous samples number 1-4 are HCV-Tg MDR2-KO samples 1-4, of tumorous sample 5,6 - HCV-Tg MDR2-KO sample 5."'
GSE12209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The adipocyte-derived hormone leptin maintains energy balance by acting on hypothalamic leptin receptors (Leprs) that trigger the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3). Although disruption of Lepr-Stat3 signaling promotes obesity in mice, other features of Lepr function, such as fertility, seem normal, pointing to the involvement of additional regulators. Here we show that the cyclic AMP responsive element–binding protein-1 (Creb1)-regulated transcription coactivator-1 (Crtc1) is required for energy balance and reproduction—Crtc1-/- mice are hyperphagic, obese and infertile. Hypothalamic Crtc1 was phosphorylated and inactive in leptin-deficient ob/ob mice; leptin administration increased amounts of dephosphorylated nuclear Crtc1. Dephosphorylated Crtc1 stimulated expression of the Cartpt and Kiss1 genes, which encode hypothalamic neuropeptides that mediate leptin’s effects on satiety and fertility. Crtc1 overexpression in hypothalamic cells increased Cartpt and Kiss1 gene expression, whereas Crtc1 depletion decreased it. Indeed, leptin enhanced Crtc1 activity over the Cartpt and Kiss1 promoters in cells overexpressing Lepr and these effects were disrupted by expression of a dominant-negative Creb1 polypeptide. As leptin administration increased recruitment of hypothalamic Crtc1 to Cartpt and Kiss1 promoters, our results indicate that the Creb1-Crtc1 pathway mediates the central effects of hormones and nutrients on energy balance and fertility."'
GSE12209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mice were fasted overnight for 18h and refed for 6h.  Hypothalami were obtained from 3 wild-type and 3 Crtc1 knockout mice.  Total RNA was isolated from each sample and equal amounts from each sample were pooled for the microarray."'
GSE12218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Robust type I interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) production in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) is critical for anti-viral immunity. Here we demonstrated a role for the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway in regulating interferon production by pDCs. Inhibition of mTOR or the ‘downstream’ mediators of mTOR p70S6K1,2 kinases during pDC activation via Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) blocked the interaction of TLR9 with the adaptor MyD88 and the subsequent activation of interferon response factor 7 (IRF7), resulting in impaired IFN-alpha production. Microarray analysis confirmed that inhibition of mTOR by the immunosuppressive drug  rapamycin suppressed anti-viral and anti-inflammatory gene expression. Consistent with this, targeting rapamycin-encapsulated microparticles to antigen-presenting cells in vivo resulted in a diminution of IFN-alpha production in response to CpG DNA or the yellow fever vaccine virus strain 17D.  Thus, mTOR signaling plays a critical role in TLR-mediated IFN-alpha responses by pDCs."'
GSE12275_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"FAN (Factor associated with neutral sphingomyelinase activation) is an adaptor protein that constitutively binds to TNF-R1. Microarray analysis was performed in fibroblasts derived from wild-type or FAN knockout mouse embryos to evaluate the role of FAN in TNF-induced gene expression."'
GSE12294_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Basal (intermediate) progenitors are the major source of neurons in the mammalian cerebral cortex. The molecular machinery governing basal progenitor biogenesis is unknown. Here we show that the zinc finger transcription factor Insm1 (insulinoma-associated 1) is expressed  specifically in progenitors undergoing neurogenic divisions and has a key role in basal progenitor formation. Mouse embryos lacking Insm1 contained half the number of basal progenitors and showed a marked reduction in cortical plate radial thickness. Forced premature expression of Insm1 in neuroepithelial cells resulted in their mitosis occurring at the basal (rather than apical) side of the ventricular zone and induced expression of the basal progenitor marker Tbr2. Remarkably,  these cells remained negative for Tis21, a marker of neurogenic progenitors, and did not generate neurons but underwent self-amplification. Our data imply that Insm1 is involved in the generation  and expansion of basal progenitors, a hallmark of cerebral cortex evolution."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Using glutathione peroxidase, Gpx1 and Gpx2, double knockout (Gpx1/2-KO) mice as a model of inflammatory bowel disease predisposing to intestinal cancer, we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation and chromatin changing’s in the mouse ileum during chronic inflammation, aging and cancer. We found that inflammation leads to aberrant DNA methylation in Polycomb target genes, with 70% of the ~250 genes methylated in the inflamed tissue being PcG targets in embryonic stem cells and 58% of the methylated genes being marked by H3K27 trimethylation in the ileum of adult wildtype mice. Acquisition of DNA methylation at CpG islands in the ileum of Gpx-1/2-KO mice frequently correlated with loss of H3K27 trimethylation at the same loci. Inflammation-associated DNA methylation occurs preferentially in tissue-specific silent genes and, importantly, is much more frequently represented in tumors than is age-dependent DNA methylation. 60% of aberrant methylation found in tumors is also present in the inflamed tissue. In summary, inflammation creates a signature of aberrant DNA methylation, which is observed later in the malignant tissue and is directed by the PcG complex."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Using glutathione peroxidase, Gpx1 and Gpx2, double knockout (Gpx1/2-KO) mice as a model of inflammatory bowel disease predisposing to intestinal cancer, we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation and chromatin changing’s in the mouse ileum during chronic inflammation, aging and cancer. We found that inflammation leads to aberrant DNA methylation in Polycomb target genes, with 70% of the ~250 genes methylated in the inflamed tissue being PcG targets in embryonic stem cells and 58% of the methylated genes being marked by H3K27 trimethylation in the ileum of adult wildtype mice. Acquisition of DNA methylation at CpG islands in the ileum of Gpx-1/2-KO mice frequently correlated with loss of H3K27 trimethylation at the same loci. Inflammation-associated DNA methylation occurs preferentially in tissue-specific silent genes and, importantly, is much more frequently represented in tumors than is age-dependent DNA methylation. 60% of aberrant methylation found in tumors is also present in the inflamed tissue. In summary, inflammation creates a signature of aberrant DNA methylation, which is observed later in the malignant tissue and is directed by the PcG complex."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Using glutathione peroxidase, Gpx1 and Gpx2, double knockout (Gpx1/2-KO) mice as a model of inflammatory bowel disease predisposing to intestinal cancer, we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation and chromatin changing’s in the mouse ileum during chronic inflammation, aging and cancer. We found that inflammation leads to aberrant DNA methylation in Polycomb target genes, with 70% of the ~250 genes methylated in the inflamed tissue being PcG targets in embryonic stem cells and 58% of the methylated genes being marked by H3K27 trimethylation in the ileum of adult wildtype mice. Acquisition of DNA methylation at CpG islands in the ileum of Gpx-1/2-KO mice frequently correlated with loss of H3K27 trimethylation at the same loci. Inflammation-associated DNA methylation occurs preferentially in tissue-specific silent genes and, importantly, is much more frequently represented in tumors than is age-dependent DNA methylation. 60% of aberrant methylation found in tumors is also present in the inflamed tissue. In summary, inflammation creates a signature of aberrant DNA methylation, which is observed later in the malignant tissue and is directed by the PcG complex."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"In our study we used mice Gpx1/2-ko with B6 and B6.129 genetic background which are characterized by different level of inflammation in ileum and different tumor susceptibility. DNA methylation was analyzed by using MIRA-assisted Microarrays approach. Changing of the DNA methylation in intestinal epithelium during inflammation and tumorgenesis in Gpx1/2-KO mice were compared to healthy control mice with matching age. Aged dependent DNA methylation was study by comparing DNA methylation between 28-days-old healthy control mice with 8-month-old mice. To detect DKO-specific DNA methylation, we compared the changing DNA methylation in liver from Gpx1/2-KO mice with liver from control mice at age 28 days and 8 month. Association of the inflammation dependent DNA methylation with Polycomb targets and loss of H3K27me3 were verified by ChIp-on-ChIp experiments using H3K27me3 antibodies."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"In our study we used mice Gpx1/2-ko with B6 and B6.129 genetic background which are characterized by different level of inflammation in ileum and different tumor susceptibility. DNA methylation was analyzed by using MIRA-assisted Microarrays approach. Changing of the DNA methylation in intestinal epithelium during inflammation and tumorgenesis in Gpx1/2-KO mice were compared to healthy control mice with matching age. Aged dependent DNA methylation was study by comparing DNA methylation between 28-days-old healthy control mice with 8-month-old mice. To detect DKO-specific DNA methylation, we compared the changing DNA methylation in liver from Gpx1/2-KO mice with liver from control mice at age 28 days and 8 month. Association of the inflammation dependent DNA methylation with Polycomb targets and loss of H3K27me3 were verified by ChIp-on-ChIp experiments using H3K27me3 antibodies."'
GSE12315_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"In our study we used mice Gpx1/2-ko with B6 and B6.129 genetic background which are characterized by different level of inflammation in ileum and different tumor susceptibility. DNA methylation was analyzed by using MIRA-assisted Microarrays approach. Changing of the DNA methylation in intestinal epithelium during inflammation and tumorgenesis in Gpx1/2-KO mice were compared to healthy control mice with matching age. Aged dependent DNA methylation was study by comparing DNA methylation between 28-days-old healthy control mice with 8-month-old mice. To detect DKO-specific DNA methylation, we compared the changing DNA methylation in liver from Gpx1/2-KO mice with liver from control mice at age 28 days and 8 month. Association of the inflammation dependent DNA methylation with Polycomb targets and loss of H3K27me3 were verified by ChIp-on-ChIp experiments using H3K27me3 antibodies."'
GSE12330_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Embryonic stem cells derived from developmentally incompetent embryos deficient in maternal and zygotic Cdx2"'
GSE12330_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Separation of cell lineages during early mammalian development is required to establish the pluripotent founder cell population that will give rise to the embryo proper and a functional trophoblast to support its development. We systemically assessed the role of the homeobox gene Cdx2 in vivo and in vitro development with an RNAi approach. Effective elimination of both maternal and zygotic Cdx2 resulted in typical phenotypes of Cdx2-mutant embryos, such as failure of hatching and implantation. However, the blastulation and expression of TE specific markers in these Cdx2-deficient embryos excluded the possibility of Cdx2 to act as a TE determinant, although compromised structure and functioning of TE was observed and the resulted embryos were not viable. Strikingly, the efficiency of stem cell derivation was significantly higher than control when embryos were put on MEF at the 8-cell stage and the derived stem cells were fully pluripotent as shown by chimera and tetraploid complementation experiments. Comparative genomic hybridization of wild type and Cdx2 mutant at 8-cell and blastocyst mouse embryos were performed."'
GSE12356_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The chromatin regulator Aiolos and the transcriptional coactivator OBF-1 have been implicated in regulating aspects of B cell maturation and activation. Mice lacking either of these factors have a largely normal early B cell development. However, when both factors are eliminated simultaneously a block is uncovered at the transition between pre-B and immature B cells, indicating that these proteins exert a critical function in developing B lymphocytes. In mice deficient for Aiolos and OBF-1, the numbers of immature B cells are reduced, small pre-BII cells are increased and a significant impairment in immunoglobulin light chain DNA rearrangement is observed. We identified genes whose expression is deregulated in the pre-B cell compartment of these mice. In particular, we found that components of the pre-BCR, such as the surrogate light chain genes l5l5 and VpreB, fail to be efficiently silenced in double-mutant mice. Strikingly, developmentally regulated nuclear repositioning of the l5l5 gene is impaired in pre-B cells lacking OBF-1 and Aiolos. These studies uncover a novel role for OBF-1 and Aiolos in controlling the transcription and nuclear organization of genes involved in pre-BCR function."'
GSE12356_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The chromatin regulator Aiolos and the transcriptional coactivator OBF-1 have been implicated in regulating aspects of B cell maturation and activation. Mice lacking either of these factors have a largely normal early B cell development. However, when both factors are eliminated simultaneously a block is uncovered at the transition between pre-B and immature B cells, indicating that these proteins exert a critical function in developing B lymphocytes. In mice deficient for Aiolos and OBF-1, the numbers of immature B cells are reduced, small pre-BII cells are increased and a significant impairment in immunoglobulin light chain DNA rearrangement is observed. We identified genes whose expression is deregulated in the pre-B cell compartment of these mice. In particular, we found that components of the pre-BCR, such as the surrogate light chain genes l5l5 and VpreB, fail to be efficiently silenced in double-mutant mice. Strikingly, developmentally regulated nuclear repositioning of the l5l5 gene is impaired in pre-B cells lacking OBF-1 and Aiolos. These studies uncover a novel role for OBF-1 and Aiolos in controlling the transcription and nuclear organization of genes involved in pre-BCR function."'
GSE12367_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Microarray analysis was used to compare the gene expression profiles of Deaf-1-transduced mouse mammary epithelial cells (MECs) relative to Deaf-1-deficient MECs."'
GSE12367_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"To investigate potential target genes of Deaf-1, primary mammary epithelial cells (MECs) were isolated from a Deaf-1-null mouse and immortalised by transduction with a retrovirus encoding the human papilloma virus (HPV16) E6/E7 proteins.  Two clones were selected and transduced with either an empty retrovirus or one encoding Deaf-1. RNA was subsequently isolated from cells at 24 and 48 hours after transduction for Affymetrix analysis.  High levels of Deaf-1 expression were demonstrated in cells transduced with the Deaf-1 retrovirus relative to controls following a 48 hour selection in puromycin.  This time-point was therefore selected for further analysis."'
GSE12367_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"To compare the gene expression profiles of Deaf-1-transduced MECs relative to Deaf-1-deficient MECs, Affymetrix analysis was performed using the GeneChip® Mouse Expression Set 430 2.0 array which comprises 39,000 transcripts on a single array.  Total RNA was harvested from two independent clones (C1 and E1) infected with either control or Deaf-1-expressing retrovirus making 4 samples in total.  Clones C1 and E1 were treated as biological replicates in the subsequent analysis."'
GSE12412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Embryonic day 15 and Postnatal day 1 whole mouse brain AGTR2 knockout versus control"'
GSE12412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The gene expression profiles of control vs AGTR2 knockout mouse whole brains at developmental stage E15 and postnatal day 1 were examined."'
GSE12412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Embryonic day 15: six biological control replicates and eight biological AGTR2 knockout replicates, one control and knockout replicate to an array with a dye-swap, except for 2 without a dye-swap"'
GSE12412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Postnatal day 1: four biological control replicates and four biological AGTR2 knockout replicates, one control and knockout replicate to an array with a dye-swap"'
GSE12415_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"HSF4 deficient lens of newborn mice"'
GSE12415_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Microarray Analyses of Newborn Mouse lens lacking HSF4. Hsf4 is essential for lens development."'
GSE12419-GPL2884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL2884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL2884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL2884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12419-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The human CDKN2A locus encodes two distinct proteins, p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF) [mouse p19(Arf)], designated INK4A and ARF herein, that are translated from alternatively spliced mRNAs.  Human ARF is implicated as a tumor suppressor gene, mainly in association with the simultaneous deletion of INK4A.  However, questions remain as to whether loss of ARF alone is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis.  Here we report that mice deficient for Arf are susceptible to accelerated asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM).  MMs arising in Arf (+/-) mice consistently exhibit biallelic inactivation of Arf, but unexpectedly, do not acquire additional recurrent genetic alterations that we previously identified in asbestos-induced MMs arising in Nf2 (+/-) mice.  Array CGH analysis was used to detect a recurrent deletion at chromosome 4C6.  A candidate in this region, Faf1 (FAS-associated factor 1), was further explored because it encodes a protein implicated in tumor cell survival and in the pathogenesis of some human tumor types.  We confirmed hemizygous loss of Faf1 and down regulation of Faf1 protein in a series of MMs from Arf (+/-) mice, and then showed that Faf1 regulates TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB signaling, a mechanism previously implicated in asbestos-induced oncogenesis of human mesothelial cells.  Collectively, these investigations divulge important information regarding the significance of Arf inactivation in MM pathogenesis, and implicate Faf1 as a key component in the TNFalpha/NFkappaB signaling node that has now been independently implicated in the asbestos-induced oncogenesis."'
GSE12421_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"OBF1, also known as Bob.1 or OCA-B, is a B lymphocyte-specific transcription factor which coactivates Oct1 and Oct2 on B cell specific promoters. So far, the function of OBF1 has been mainly identified in late stage B cell populations. The central defect of OBF1 deficient mice is a severely reduced immune response to T cell-dependent antigens and a lack of germinal center formation in the spleen. Relatively little is known about a potential function of OBF1 in developing B cells. Here we have generated transgenic mice overexpressing OBF1 in B cells under the control of the immunoglobulin heavy chain promoter and enhancer. Surprisingly, these mice have greatly reduced numbers of follicular B cells in the periphery and have a compromised immune response. Furthermore, B cell differentiation is impaired at an early stage in the bone marrow. A first block is observed during B cell commitment and a second differentiation block is seen at the large preB2 cell stage. The cells that succeed to escape the block and to differentiate into mature B cells have post-translationally downregulated the expression of transgene, indicating that expression of OBF1 beyond the normal level early in B cell development is deleterious. Indeed ID3, which is a negative regulator of B cell differentiation, is upregulated in the EPLM and preB cells of the transgenic mice. Furthermore ID3 promoter contains an octamer site suggesting that it is a potential OBF-1 direct target gene. These results provide evidence that OBF1 expression has to be tightly regulated in early B cells to allow efficient B lymphocyte differentiation."'
GSE12430_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We are examining the genes that control initiation and progression of murine medulloblastomas that result from loss of patched. Approximately 25% of human medulloblastomas have mutations in patched or in other elements of the sonic hedgehog pathway. However, the cells from which these tumors originate (neural progenitors or stem cells), the cells that are responsible for tumor propagation (cancer stem cells), and the genes that are required for tumor progression are poorly understood. To address these questions, we have developed conditional patched knockout mice in which the gene is deleted in neural stem cells or progenitors. In addition, we have isolated a population of tumor-propagating cells from these tumors. By studying these models we will gain insight into the mechanisms of tumorigenesis and identify new targets for therapy."'
GSE12430_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We are examining the genes that control initiation and progression of murine medulloblastomas that result from loss of patched. Approximately 25% of human medulloblastomas have mutations in patched or in other elements of the sonic hedgehog pathway. However, the cells from which these tumors originate (neural progenitors or stem cells), the cells that are responsible for tumor propagation (cancer stem cells), and the genes that are required for tumor progression are poorly understood. To address these questions, we have developed conditional patched knockout mice in which the gene is deleted in neural stem cells or progenitors. In addition, we have isolated a population of tumor-propagating cells from these tumors. By studying these models we will gain insight into the mechanisms of tumorigenesis and identify new targets for therapy."'
GSE12430_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"To identify the molecular mechanisms that underlie tumor initiation and propagation, we will compare gene expression in tumors resulting from loss of patched in neural stem cells vs. progentors, and in cancer stem cells vs. non-cancer stem cells."'
GSE12430_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Cells from 5 GFAP-Cre tumors, 5 Math1-Cre tumors, and 5 conventional patched-knockout tumors will be isolated using enzymatic digestion and Percoll gradient centrifugation. These procedures have been found to result in 85-95% pure tumor cell populations. In addition, 5 tumors will be FACS-sorted to isolate CD15+ and CD15- populations. RNA will be prepared from each of these samples using an RNeasy kit from Qiagen. Samples of 2 micrograms will be resuspended in 10 microliters of RNase-free water, and sent to the Consortium for labeling, hybridization and analysis. Cells from the three types of tumors, and CD15+ and CD15- cells,  will be compared to one another."'
GSE12454_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"At E13.5, n = 3 biological replicates of littermate-matched wt/ko pairs.  RNA from 2 forebrains were pooled to generate enough RNA for each sample."'
GSE12454_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"At P0.5, n = 4 biological replicates of littermate-matched wt/ko pairs (for pair #2 there is one wt and 2 Atrx-null samples (2A & 2B) and we count this as 2 pairs)."'
GSE12454_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"At P0.5, n = 4 biological replicates of littermate-matched wt/ko pairs (for pair #2 there is one wt and 2 Atrx-null samples (2A & 2B) and we count this as 2 pairs)."'
GSE12464_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The Tec-family kinase Itk plays an important role during T-cell activation and function, and controls also conventional versus innate-like T-cell development. We have characterized the transcriptome of Itk-deficient CD3+ T-cells, including CD4+ and CD8+ subsets, using Affymetrix microarrays. The largest difference between Itk-/- and Wt CD3+ T-cells was found in unstimulated cells, e.g. for killer cell lectin-like receptors. Compared to anti-CD3-stimulation, anti-CD3/CD28 significantly decreased the number of transcripts suggesting that the CD28 co-stimulatory pathway is mainly independent of Itk. The signatures of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets identified a greater differential expression than in total CD3+ cells. Cyclosporin (CsA)-treatment had a stronger effect on transcriptional regulation than Itk-deficiency, suggesting that only a fraction of TCR-mediated calcineurin/NFAT-activation is dependent on Itk. Bioinformatic analysis of NFAT-sites of the group of transcripts similarly regulated by Itk-deficiency and CsA-treatment, followed by chromatin-immunoprecipitation, revealed NFATc1-binding to the Bub1, IL7R, Ctla2a, Ctla2b, and Schlafen1 genes. Finally, to identify transcripts that are regulated by Tec-family kinases in general, we compared the expression profile of Itk-deficient T-cells with that of Btk-deficient B-cells and a common set of transcripts was found. Taken together, our study provides a general overview about the global transcriptional changes in the absence of Itk."'
GSE12464_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"CD3+ T-cells from pooled suspensions of spleen and lymph nodes of Wt and Itk knockout mice on C57BL/6 background were isolated after negative depletion. Unstimulated as well as stimulated T-cells were studied. Stimulations were done with anti-CD3 (1 mg/ml) with or without anti-CD28 (3 mg/ml) in the presence or absence of CsA (1 mg/ml) for 24 hrs. For each stimulus, at least duplicate samples were used."'
GSE12465_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The Tec-family kinase Itk plays an important role during T-cell activation and function, and controls also conventional versus innate-like T-cell development. We have characterized the transcriptome of Itk-deficient CD3+ T-cells, including CD4+ and CD8+ subsets, using Affymetrix microarrays. The largest difference between Itk-/- and Wt CD3+ T-cells was found in unstimulated cells, e.g. for killer cell lectin-like receptors. Compared to anti-CD3-stimulation, anti-CD3/CD28 significantly decreased the number of transcripts suggesting that the CD28 co-stimulatory pathway is mainly independent of Itk. The signatures of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets identified a greater differential expression than in total CD3+ cells. Cyclosporin (CsA)-treatment had a stronger effect on transcriptional regulation than Itk-deficiency, suggesting that only a fraction of TCR-mediated calcineurin/NFAT-activation is dependent on Itk. Bioinformatic analysis of NFAT-sites of the group of transcripts similarly regulated by Itk-deficiency and CsA-treatment, followed by chromatin-immunoprecipitation, revealed NFATc1-binding to the Bub1, IL7R, Ctla2a, Ctla2b, and Schlafen1 genes. Finally, to identify transcripts that are regulated by Tec-family kinases in general, we compared the expression profile of Itk-deficient T-cells with that of Btk-deficient B-cells and a common set of transcripts was found. Taken together, our study provides a general overview about the global transcriptional changes in the absence of Itk."'
GSE12465_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"CD3+ CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells from pooled suspensions of spleen and lymph nodes of Wt and Itk knockout mice on C57BL/6 background were isolated after negative depletion. Unstimulated as well as stimulated T-cells were studied. Stimulations were done with anti-CD3 (1 mg/ml) for 24 hrs. For the CD4+ T-cells we collected triplicates from the Itk knockout mice and duplicates from the Wt group. For the CD8+ T-cells, we got duplicates from Itk knockout , while we obtained a single sample from Wt owing to the low cell yield for resting Wt CD8+ T-cells. After CD3-stimulation we got a single sample from the CD8+ subset of both Wt and Itk knockout, while for the CD4+ subsets we collected duplicates."'
GSE12466_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional signatures of Itk-deficient CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells"'
GSE12467_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Differentially regulated genes in control and c-myc N-myc deficient LT-HSCs"'
GSE12467_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs. "'
GSE12467_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs. "'
GSE12467_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs. "'
GSE12489_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The nuclear receptors CAR (constitutive androstane receptor) and PXR (pregnane X receptor) mediate the effects of  phenobarbital (PB) on gene transcription. To investigate the relative role of CAR and PXR in the induction response, cDNA arrays were generated containing 120 genes which are known to be regulated with these or related nuclear receptors (genes involved in drug metabolism, cholesterol biosynthesis, sterol synthesis/transport, heme synthesis). Samples from livers of wild type and CAR-/-, PXR-/- or CAR/PXR-/- knockout mice were tested after treatment with PB for gene expression within the  European Framework V program “Steroltalk” (www.steroltalk.net). Results from these experiments unexpectedly revealed that if CAR and PXR are deleted, PB increases the expression of several other nuclear receptors and genes involved in drug metabolism and cholesterol biosynthesis. "'
GSE12495_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Wild type mice (Trsp) vs Trsp-knockout mice (DTrsp) or A34 or G37L or G37H transgenic mice"'
GSE12495_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Comparative analysis of gene expression in the liver of the Trsp-knockout mice  (Trspfl/fl-AlbCre+/+) and A34 (Trspfl/fl-AlbCre+/+-A34t/t), G37L (Trspfl/fl-AlbCre+/+-G37t/t; 2 copies), G37H (Trspfl/fl-AlbCre+/+-G37t/t; 16 copies) transgenic mice with gene expression of wild type mice (Trsp+/+-AlbCre+/+)."'
GSE12495_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Sec (selenocysteine) is biosynthesized on its tRNA and incorporated into selenium-containing proteins (selenoproteins) as the 21st amino acid residue. Selenoprotein synthesis is dependent on Sec tRNA and the expression of this class of proteins can be modulated by altering Sec tRNA expression. The gene encoding Sec tRNA (Trsp) is a single-copy gene and its targeted removal in liver demonstrated that selenoproteins are essential for proper function wherein their absence leads to necrosis and hepatocellular degeneration. In the present study, we found that the complete loss of selenoproteins in liver was compensated for by an enhanced expression of several phase II response genes and their corresponding gene products. The replacement of selenoprotein synthesis in mice carrying mutant Trsp transgenes, wherein housekeeping, but not stress-related selenoproteins are expressed, led to normal expression of phase II response genes. Thus the present study provides evidence for a functional link between housekeeping selenoproteins and phase II enzymes."'
GSE12498_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Regulation of organ size is important for development and tissue homeostasis. In  Drosophila, Hippo signaling controls organ size by regulating the activity of a TEAD  transcription factor, Scalloped, through modulation of its coactivator protein Yki. The  role of mammalian Tead proteins in growth regulation, however, remains unknown.  Here we examined the role of mouse Tead proteins in growth regulation. In NIH3T3  cells, cell density and Hippo signaling regulated the activity of Tead proteins by  modulating nuclear localization of a Yki homologue, Yap, and the resulting change in  Tead activity altered cell proliferation. Tead2-VP16 mimicked Yap overexpression,  including increased cell proliferation, reduced cell death, promotion of EMT, lack of cell  contact inhibition, and promotion of tumor formation. Growth promoting activities of  various Yap mutants correlated with their Tead-coactivator activities. Tead2-VP16 and  Yap regulated largely overlapping sets of genes. However, only a few of the Tead/Yapregulated  genes in NIH3T3 cells were affected in Tead1-/-;Tead2-/- or Yap-/- embryos. Most  of the previously identified Yap-regulated genes were not affected in NIH3T3 cells or  mutant mice. In embryos, levels of nuclear Yap and Tead1 varied depending on cell  types. Strong nuclear accumulation of Yap and Tead1 were seen in myocardium,  correlating with requirements of Tead1 for proliferation. However, their distribution did  not always correlate with proliferation. Taken together, mammalian Tead proteins  regulate cell proliferation and contact inhibition as a transcriptional mediator of Hippo  signaling, but the mechanisms by which Tead/Yap regulate cell proliferation differ  depending on cell types, and Tead, Yap and Hippo signaling may play multiple roles in  mouse embryos."'
GSE12503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Despite a complete absence of intestinal mucin, mice lacking AGR2 appeared healthy but were highly susceptible to dextran sodium sulfate-induced experimental colitis, indicating a critical role for AGR2 in protection from environmental insults."'
GSE12503_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"DNA miocroarrays were used to analyze small intenstine and colon mRNA expression of AGR2 KO and littermate control mice. The experiment incorporated a 1 color design and used Agilent arrays that contained roughly 44,00 60mer probes that provide complete coverage of the mouse genome. 12 arrays were hybridized and represent 8 small intestine samples ( 4 each KO and WT) and 4 colon samples (2 each KO and WT)"'
GSE12509_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The nuclear receptor CAR (constitutive androstane receptor)  mediates the effects of  1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) on gene transcription. To investigate the relative role of CAR and also PXR in the induction response, cDNA arrays were generated containing 120 (Sterolgene V1) genes which are known to be regulated with these or related nuclear receptors (genes involved in drug metabolism, cholesterol biosynthesis, sterol synthesis/transport, heme synthesis). Samples from livers of wild type and CAR-/-, PXR-/- or CAR/PXR-/- knockout mice were tested after treatment with TCPOBOP for gene expression within the  European Framework V program “Steroltalk” (www.steroltalk.net). Results from these experiments show the complex role of CAR receptor in the expression of genes involved in drug metabolism and cholesterol biosynthesis. "'
GSE12536_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Differentially regulated genes in control and c-myc N-myc deficient progenitors"'
GSE12536_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs and commited progenitors."'
GSE12536_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs and commited progenitors."'
GSE12536_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of HSCs from control and c-myc N-myc deficient long-term hematopoietic stem cells. HSCs lacking both c-myc and N-myc display increased apoptosis rates. Data provide insight into the molecular changes occuring upon complete loss of Myc activity, clarifying the resulting apoptotic mechanism and the role of Myc family proteins in HSCs and commited progenitors."'
GSE12537_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The nuclear receptor PXR (Pregnane X rreceptor) mediates the effects of pregnenolone-16alpha-carbonitrile (PCN) on gene transcription. The relative role of PXR and also CAR to the induction response by PCN was studied on cDNA arrays containing 320 (Steroltalk V2) genes (genes involved in cyrcadian rhythm, drug metabolism, cholesterol biosynthesis, sterol synthesis/transport, heme synthesis). Samples from livers of wild type and CAR-/-, PXR-/- or CAR/PXR-/- knockout mice were tested after treatment with PCN for gene expression within the European Framework V program “Steroltalk” (www.steroltalk.net). Results from these experiments show the complex role of PXR receptor in the expression of genes involved in cyrcadian rhythm, drug metabolism and cholesterol biosynthesis."'
GSE12538_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Differentially regulated genes in control and c-myc N-myc deficient LT-HSCs and progenitors"'
GSE12541-GPL2872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Aldehyde oxidase homologue 2 (Aoh2) knockout mouse and retinoic acid synthesis"'
GSE12541-GPL2872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The mouse aldehyde oxidase, Aoh2 (aldehyde oxidase homolog 2), is a molybdo-flavoenzyme.  Harderian glands are the richest source of Aoh2, although  the protein is detectable also in sebaceous glands, epidermis and other keratinized epithelia.  The levels of Aoh2 in the Harderian gland and skin are controlled by genetic background, being maximal in CD1 or C57BL/6 and minimal in DBA/2, CBA or 129/Sv strains.  Testosterone is a negative regulator of Aoh2 in Harderian glands.  Homogenously purified Aoh2 oxidizes retinaldehyde into retinoic acid efficiently, while it is devoid of pyridoxal oxidizing activity, unlike other aldehyde oxidases.  Aoh2  knockout mice are viable and fertile, although they have an absolute deficit of retinaldehyde oxidase activity in the Harderian gland, decreased retinoic acid levels, and down-regulation of retinoid-dependent genes.  The Harderian gland’s transcriptome of knockout mice is characterized by perturbations in pathways controlling lipid homeostasis and cellular secretion.  This is particularly evident in sexually immature animals.  Lower amounts of retinoic acid are also observed in the skin of Aoh2-/- animals.  Knockout mice have thickening of the epidermis in basal conditions and after UV light exposure.  This has correlates in the skin transcriptome, which shows enrichment and overall up-regulation of genes involved in hypertrophic responses."'
GSE12541-GPL2872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene knockout study"'
GSE12541-GPL2872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Harderian Gland - Animals were divided into four groups: male and female, before and after sexual maturation (5-6 and 7-9 weeks, respectively). 3-5 animals per group were used. Each couple of samples from WT and KO mice, age and sex matched, and where possible, from brothers, were hybridized on the same slide, in dye-swapped duplicates, for a total of 30 microarrays."'
GSE12541-GPL2872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Skin – Skin samples from 4 WT and 4 KO adult female animals were taken, age matched (sisters, whenever possible), and hybridized on the same slide with a balanced dye design, for a total of 4 microarrays."'
GSE12541-GPL7202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Aldehyde oxidase homologue 2 (Aoh2) knockout mouse and retinoic acid synthesis"'
GSE12541-GPL7202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The mouse aldehyde oxidase, Aoh2 (aldehyde oxidase homolog 2), is a molybdo-flavoenzyme.  Harderian glands are the richest source of Aoh2, although  the protein is detectable also in sebaceous glands, epidermis and other keratinized epithelia.  The levels of Aoh2 in the Harderian gland and skin are controlled by genetic background, being maximal in CD1 or C57BL/6 and minimal in DBA/2, CBA or 129/Sv strains.  Testosterone is a negative regulator of Aoh2 in Harderian glands.  Homogenously purified Aoh2 oxidizes retinaldehyde into retinoic acid efficiently, while it is devoid of pyridoxal oxidizing activity, unlike other aldehyde oxidases.  Aoh2  knockout mice are viable and fertile, although they have an absolute deficit of retinaldehyde oxidase activity in the Harderian gland, decreased retinoic acid levels, and down-regulation of retinoid-dependent genes.  The Harderian gland’s transcriptome of knockout mice is characterized by perturbations in pathways controlling lipid homeostasis and cellular secretion.  This is particularly evident in sexually immature animals.  Lower amounts of retinoic acid are also observed in the skin of Aoh2-/- animals.  Knockout mice have thickening of the epidermis in basal conditions and after UV light exposure.  This has correlates in the skin transcriptome, which shows enrichment and overall up-regulation of genes involved in hypertrophic responses."'
GSE12541-GPL7202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene knockout study"'
GSE12541-GPL7202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Harderian Gland - Animals were divided into four groups: male and female, before and after sexual maturation (5-6 and 7-9 weeks, respectively). 3-5 animals per group were used. Each couple of samples from WT and KO mice, age and sex matched, and where possible, from brothers, were hybridized on the same slide, in dye-swapped duplicates, for a total of 30 microarrays."'
GSE12541-GPL7202_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Skin – Skin samples from 4 WT and 4 KO adult female animals were taken, age matched (sisters, whenever possible), and hybridized on the same slide with a balanced dye design, for a total of 4 microarrays."'
GSE12544_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The MYC oncogene has been implicated in the regulation of up to thousands of genes involved in many cellular programs including proliferation, growth, differentiation, self-renewal, and apoptosis. MYC is thought to induce cancer through an exaggerated effect on these physiologic programs. Which of these genes are responsible for the ability of MYC to initiate and/or maintain tumorigenesis is not clear. Previously, we have shown that upon brief MYC inactivation, some tumors undergo sustained regression. Here we demonstrate that upon MYC inactivation there are global permanent changes in gene expression detected by microarray analysis. By applying StepMiner analysis, we identified genes whose expression most strongly correlated with the ability of MYC to induce a neoplastic state. Notably, genes were identified that exhibited permanent changes in mRNA expression upon MYC inactivation. Importantly, permanent changes in gene expression could be shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) to be associated with permanent changes in the ability of MYC to bind to the promoter regions. Our list of candidate genes associated with tumor maintenance was further refined by comparing our analysis with other published results to generate a gene signature associated with MYC-induced tumorigenesis in mice. To validate the role of gene signatures associated with MYC in human tumorigenesis, we examined the expression of human homologs in 273 published human lymphoma microarray datasets in Affymetrix U133A format. One large functional group of these genes included the ribosomal structural proteins. In addition, we identified a group of genes involved in a diverse array of cellular functions including: BZW2, H2AFY, SFRS3, NAP1L1, NOLA2, UBE2D2, CCNG1, LIFR, FABP3, and EDG1. Hence, through our analysis of gene expression in murine tumor models and human lymphomas, we have identified a novel gene signature correlated with the ability of MYC to maintain tumorigenesis."'
GSE12545_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The zinc finger transcription factor growth-factor-independent-1 (Gfi1) has been involved in various cellular differentiation processes. Gfi1 acts as a transcriptional repressor and splicing control factor upon binding to cognate binding sites in regulatory elements of its target genes. Here, we report that Gfi1-deficient mice develop autoimmunity. Gfi1-deficient peripheral B-cells show a hyperproliferative phenotype, leading to expansion of plasma cells, increased levels of nuclear autoantibodies, and immunoglobulin deposition in brain and kidneys. Dysregulation of multiple transcription factors and cell-cycle control elements may contribute to B-cell dependent autoimmunity. Gfi1 thus emerges as a novel master-regulator restricting autoimmunity."'
GSE12576_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild type (WT), PrP-null (KO), and Tg(HQK) mice were fed food pellets either lacking or containing 6g doxycycline (Dox)/kg food to induce PrPC expression. Skeletal muscles from the quadriceps of hind legs were removed at day 0, 4, 7, 14, 30 and 60 days following administration of Dox.  Total RNA was isolated from these tissues for use in subsequent microarray analysis. Mouse gene expression was analysed by two-colour microarray experiments using an inhouse manufactured 16K mouse cDNA microarray. Age matched reference mice (WT) and experimental (KO and HQK) Alexa Flour labeled aRNA were used in each competitive hybridization.  Each sample was labeled individually with both Alexa Fluor 555 and 647 for subsequent dye-swapped hybridizations to account for intensity bias. 3 individual mice from each experimental group at each time point were individually processed for separate microarrays.  We used the program EDGE to identify genes that were differentially expressed in mouse skeletal muscle in either transgenic HQK mice over expressing PrP, or PrP knock out (KO) mice  after administration of Dox.  We used a P value cut-off of 0.05 as the criteria of selection of significantly differentially expressed genes."'
GSE12576_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild type (WT), PrP-null (KO), and Tg(HQK) mice were fed food pellets either lacking or containing 6g doxycycline (Dox)/kg food to induce PrPC expression. Skeletal muscles from the quadriceps of hind legs were removed at day 0, 4, 7, 14, 30 and 60 days following administration of Dox.  Total RNA was isolated from these tissues for use in subsequent microarray analysis. Mouse gene expression was analysed by two-colour microarray experiments using an inhouse manufactured 16K mouse cDNA microarray. Age matched reference mice (WT) and experimental (KO and HQK) Alexa Flour labeled aRNA were used in each competitive hybridization.  Each sample was labeled individually with both Alexa Fluor 555 and 647 for subsequent dye-swapped hybridizations to account for intensity bias. 3 individual mice from each experimental group at each time point were individually processed for separate microarrays.  We used the program EDGE to identify genes that were differentially expressed in mouse skeletal muscle in either transgenic HQK mice over expressing PrP, or PrP knock out (KO) mice  after administration of Dox.  We used a P value cut-off of 0.05 as the criteria of selection of significantly differentially expressed genes."'
GSE12576_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild type (WT), PrP-null (KO), and Tg(HQK) mice were fed food pellets either lacking or containing 6g doxycycline (Dox)/kg food to induce PrPC expression. Skeletal muscles from the quadriceps of hind legs were removed at day 0, 4, 7, 14, 30 and 60 days following administration of Dox.  Total RNA was isolated from these tissues for use in subsequent microarray analysis. Mouse gene expression was analysed by two-colour microarray experiments using an inhouse manufactured 16K mouse cDNA microarray. Age matched reference mice (WT) and experimental (KO and HQK) Alexa Flour labeled aRNA were used in each competitive hybridization.  Each sample was labeled individually with both Alexa Fluor 555 and 647 for subsequent dye-swapped hybridizations to account for intensity bias. 3 individual mice from each experimental group at each time point were individually processed for separate microarrays.  We used the program EDGE to identify genes that were differentially expressed in mouse skeletal muscle in either transgenic HQK mice over expressing PrP, or PrP knock out (KO) mice  after administration of Dox.  We used a P value cut-off of 0.05 as the criteria of selection of significantly differentially expressed genes."'
GSE12609_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Transcription factor Arx null brains (fulp-affy-mouse-364520)"'
GSE12609_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Arx is a paired-box homeodomain transcription factor and the vertebrate ortholog to the Drosophila aristaless (al) gene.  Mutations in Arx are associated with a variety of human diseases, including X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (OMIM: 308350), X-linked myoclonic epilepsy with mental retardation and spasticity (OMIM: 300432), X-linked lissencephaly with ambiguous genitalia (OMIM: 300215), X-linked mental retardation 54 (OMIM: 300419), and agenesis of the corpus callosum with abnormal genitalia (OMIM: 300004).  Arx-deficient mice exhibit a complex, pleiotrophic phenotype, including decreased proliferation of neuroepithelial cells of the cortex, dysgenesis of the thalamus and olfactory bulbs, and abnormal nonradial migration of GABAergic interneurons.  It has been suggested that deficits in interneuron specification, migration, or function lead to loss of inhibitory neurotransmission, which then fails to control excitatory activity and leads to epilepsy or spasticities.  Given that Arx mutations are associated with developmental disorders in which epilepsy and spasticity predominate and that Arx-deficient mice exhibit deficits in interneuron migration, understanding the function of Arx in interneuron migration will prove crucial to understanding the pathology underlying interneuronopathies.  Yet, downstream transcriptional targets of Arx, to date, remain unidentified."'
GSE12609_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Arx is a paired-box homeodomain transcription factor and the vertebrate ortholog to the Drosophila aristaless (al) gene.  Mutations in Arx are associated with a variety of human diseases, including X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (OMIM: 308350), X-linked myoclonic epilepsy with mental retardation and spasticity (OMIM: 300432), X-linked lissencephaly with ambiguous genitalia (OMIM: 300215), X-linked mental retardation 54 (OMIM: 300419), and agenesis of the corpus callosum with abnormal genitalia (OMIM: 300004).  Arx-deficient mice exhibit a complex, pleiotrophic phenotype, including decreased proliferation of neuroepithelial cells of the cortex, dysgenesis of the thalamus and olfactory bulbs, and abnormal nonradial migration of GABAergic interneurons.  It has been suggested that deficits in interneuron specification, migration, or function lead to loss of inhibitory neurotransmission, which then fails to control excitatory activity and leads to epilepsy or spasticities.  Given that Arx mutations are associated with developmental disorders in which epilepsy and spasticity predominate and that Arx-deficient mice exhibit deficits in interneuron migration, understanding the function of Arx in interneuron migration will prove crucial to understanding the pathology underlying interneuronopathies.  Yet, downstream transcriptional targets of Arx, to date, remain unidentified."'
GSE12609_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We have recently generated a transgenic mouse with a floxed Arx allele (Arxflox).  We have generated conditional knockouts in which Arx is removed specifically from the brain by mating Arxflox mice with transgenic mice expressing Cre behind the neural tube-specific transcriptional regulatory elements of the POU domain, class 3, transcription factor 4 promoter.  Preliminary analyses of these mice suggest that conditional knockout mice recapitulate the nonradial migration defects associated with conventional knockout mice.  We will compare the gene expression profiles of ganglion eminences (GEs; the anatomical source for nonradially migrating interneurons) from male Arxflox mice that express Pou3f-Cre to those from male mice without Arxflox allele.  Animals will be prepared and sacrificed following our institutional protocol.  Tissue will be rapidly dissected from E14.5 (the temporal peak of interneuron migration) GEs (MGE and LGE from both left and right hemispheres).  Preliminary experiments suggest that the amounts of RNA that can be isolated from a pair of GEs is in the range of 2000-3500 ng, which should be sufficient for microarray analysis following linear amplification of RNA.  The GEs from each animal will be combined, snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at -80 C until RNA is extracted.  Total RNA will be extracted using Trizol followed by RNA purification with the RNeasy cleanup kit.  We will be providing total RNA samples from four wildtype and four transgenic animals (true biological replicates) from three separate litters to mitigate any expression differences resulting from mouse to mouse or litter to litter variation."'
GSE12628_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Cardiac samples from OTT1 null/null and OTT1 null/wt embryonic mice"'
GSE12628_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The infant leukemia-associated gene, Ott1(Rbm15), has broad regulatory effects within the murine hematopoiesis. However, germline Ott1 deletion  results in fetal demise prior to E10.5, indicating additional developmental requirements for Ott1. The spen gene family, to which Ott1 belongs, has a transcriptional activation/repression domain and RNA recognition motifs, and in Drosophila has a significant role in the development of the head and thorax. Early Ott1-deficient embryos show growth retardation and incomplete closure of the notochord. Further analysis demonstrated placental defects in the spongiotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast layers, resulting in an arrest of vascular branching morphogenesis. Rescue of the placental defect using a conditional allele with a trophoblast-sparing cre transgene allowed embryos to form a normal placenta and survive gestation. This result shows that the process of vascular branching morphogenesis in Ott1-deficient animals is regulated by the trophoblast compartment rather than the fetal vasculature. Mice surviving to term manifested hyposplenia and abnormal cardiac development. Analysis of global gene expression of Ott1-deficient embryonic hearts shows enrichment of hypoxia-related genes and significant alteration of several candidate genes critical for cardiac development. Thus, Ott1-dependent pathways in addition to being implicated in leukemogenesis, may also be important in the pathogenesis of placental insufficiency and cardiac malformations."'
GSE12628_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The infant leukemia-associated gene, Ott1(Rbm15), has broad regulatory effects within the murine hematopoiesis. However, germline Ott1 deletion  results in fetal demise prior to E10.5, indicating additional developmental requirements for Ott1. The spen gene family, to which Ott1 belongs, has a transcriptional activation/repression domain and RNA recognition motifs, and in Drosophila has a significant role in the development of the head and thorax. Early Ott1-deficient embryos show growth retardation and incomplete closure of the notochord. Further analysis demonstrated placental defects in the spongiotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast layers, resulting in an arrest of vascular branching morphogenesis. Rescue of the placental defect using a conditional allele with a trophoblast-sparing cre transgene allowed embryos to form a normal placenta and survive gestation. This result shows that the process of vascular branching morphogenesis in Ott1-deficient animals is regulated by the trophoblast compartment rather than the fetal vasculature. Mice surviving to term manifested hyposplenia and abnormal cardiac development. Analysis of global gene expression of Ott1-deficient embryonic hearts shows enrichment of hypoxia-related genes and significant alteration of several candidate genes critical for cardiac development. Thus, Ott1-dependent pathways in addition to being implicated in leukemogenesis, may also be important in the pathogenesis of placental insufficiency and cardiac malformations."'
GSE12687_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"GAP-43 HZ and KO mouse barrel cortex show modifications in genes associated with synaptogenesis and barrel map formation"'
GSE12687_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Mice lacking the growth associated protein, GAP-43, (KO) show multiple deficits in forebrain axon guidance and cortical cell differentiation (Donovan and McCasland, 2005). As a result, GAP-43 KO mice fail to form barrels in mouse somatosensory cortex (S1) (Maier et al., 1999). GAP-43 heterozygous (HZ) mice show abnormalities in axonal pathfinding and show larger than normal barrels in layer IV S1 due to widely branched thalamocortical afferents (TCAs). Regardless of abnormalities during early development, HZ barrels become indistinguishable from WT by postnatal day 26. One explanation for these findings is that compensatory mechanisms may be activated in GAP-43 HZ cortex. We have used mRNA microarray expression analysis to gain a more comprehensive view of genes involved in GAP-43 signaling during barrel map formation. Using laser  microdissection , cortical cells of the barrel cortex were excised, RNA extracted and used in GeneChip analysis. Expression profiling and functional gene group analysis of RNA from WT, HZ, and KO cortex at postnatal day 5 was performed. We identified thousands of transcripts differentially expressed across the genotypes. Verification of selected changes in gene expression was accomplished using in situ hybridization. Our results suggest an adaptive modification in transcript expression of genes involved in cell-cell communication and synaptogenesis. These modifications appear important in forward and reverse signaling as well as maintaining synchrony between the cells. Compensatory up- and down regulation of synapse-associated genes may explain the reverse in HZ phenotype from P7 to P26. Moreover, these findings provide new insight into the role GAP-43 plays in several pathways associated with synaptogenesis and trans-synaptic signaling."'
GSE12687_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Mice lacking the growth associated protein, GAP-43, (KO) show multiple deficits in forebrain axon guidance and cortical cell differentiation (Donovan and McCasland, 2005). As a result, GAP-43 KO mice fail to form barrels in mouse somatosensory cortex (S1) (Maier et al., 1999). GAP-43 heterozygous (HZ) mice show abnormalities in axonal pathfinding and show larger than normal barrels in layer IV S1 due to widely branched thalamocortical afferents (TCAs). Regardless of abnormalities during early development, HZ barrels become indistinguishable from WT by postnatal day 26. One explanation for these findings is that compensatory mechanisms may be activated in GAP-43 HZ cortex. We have used mRNA microarray expression analysis to gain a more comprehensive view of genes involved in GAP-43 signaling during barrel map formation. Using laser  microdissection , cortical cells of the barrel cortex were excised, RNA extracted and used in GeneChip analysis. Expression profiling and functional gene group analysis of RNA from WT, HZ, and KO cortex at postnatal day 5 was performed. We identified thousands of transcripts differentially expressed across the genotypes. Verification of selected changes in gene expression was accomplished using in situ hybridization. Our results suggest an adaptive modification in transcript expression of genes involved in cell-cell communication and synaptogenesis. These modifications appear important in forward and reverse signaling as well as maintaining synchrony between the cells. Compensatory up- and down regulation of synapse-associated genes may explain the reverse in HZ phenotype from P7 to P26. Moreover, these findings provide new insight into the role GAP-43 plays in several pathways associated with synaptogenesis and trans-synaptic signaling."'
GSE12687_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"3 replicate RNA samples were prepared from laser microdissected barrel cortex samples of WT, HZ and KO mice at a single timepoint (postnatal day 5)"'
GSE12694_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly lethal brain tumor presenting as one of two subtypes with distinct clinical histories and molecular profiles. The primary GBM subtype presents acutely as high-grade disease that typically harbors EGFR, PTEN and Ink4a/Arf mutations, and the secondary GBM subtype evolves from the slow progression of low-grade disease that classically possesses PDGF and p53 events1.  Here, we show that concomitant CNS-specific deletion of p53 and Pten in the mouse CNS generates a penetrant acute-onset high-grade malignant glioma phenotype with striking clinical, pathological and molecular resemblance to primary GBM in humans.  This genetic observation prompted p53 and PTEN mutational analysis in human primary GBM, demonstrating unexpectedly frequent inactivating mutations of p53 as well the expected PTEN mutations.  Integrated transcriptomic profling, in silico promoter analysis and functional studies of murine neural stem cells (NSCs) established that dual, but not singular, inactivation of p53 and Pten promotes an undifferentiated state with high renewal potential and drives elevated c-Myc levels and its associated signature.  Functional studies validated increased c-Myc activity as a potent contributor to the impaired differentiation and enhanced renewal of p53-Pten null NSCs as well as tumor neurospheres (TNSs) derived from this model.  c-Myc also serves to maintain robust tumorigenic potential of p53-Pten null TNSs. These murine modeling studies, together with confirmatory transcriptomic/promoter studies in human primary GBM, validate a pathogenetic role of a common tumor suppressor mutation profile in human primary GBM and establish c-Myc as a key target for cooperative actions of p53 and Pten in the regulation of normal and malignant stem/progenitor cell differentiation, self-renewal and tumorigenic potential."'
GSE12694_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly lethal brain tumor presenting as one of two subtypes with distinct clinical histories and molecular profiles. The primary GBM subtype presents acutely as high-grade disease that typically harbors EGFR, PTEN and Ink4a/Arf mutations, and the secondary GBM subtype evolves from the slow progression of low-grade disease that classically possesses PDGF and p53 events1.  Here, we show that concomitant CNS-specific deletion of p53 and Pten in the mouse CNS generates a penetrant acute-onset high-grade malignant glioma phenotype with striking clinical, pathological and molecular resemblance to primary GBM in humans.  This genetic observation prompted p53 and PTEN mutational analysis in human primary GBM, demonstrating unexpectedly frequent inactivating mutations of p53 as well the expected PTEN mutations.  Integrated transcriptomic profling, in silico promoter analysis and functional studies of murine neural stem cells (NSCs) established that dual, but not singular, inactivation of p53 and Pten promotes an undifferentiated state with high renewal potential and drives elevated c-Myc levels and its associated signature.  Functional studies validated increased c-Myc activity as a potent contributor to the impaired differentiation and enhanced renewal of p53-Pten null NSCs as well as tumor neurospheres (TNSs) derived from this model.  c-Myc also serves to maintain robust tumorigenic potential of p53-Pten null TNSs. These murine modeling studies, together with confirmatory transcriptomic/promoter studies in human primary GBM, validate a pathogenetic role of a common tumor suppressor mutation profile in human primary GBM and establish c-Myc as a key target for cooperative actions of p53 and Pten in the regulation of normal and malignant stem/progenitor cell differentiation, self-renewal and tumorigenic potential."'
GSE12694_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly lethal brain tumor presenting as one of two subtypes with distinct clinical histories and molecular profiles. The primary GBM subtype presents acutely as high-grade disease that typically harbors EGFR, PTEN and Ink4a/Arf mutations, and the secondary GBM subtype evolves from the slow progression of low-grade disease that classically possesses PDGF and p53 events1.  Here, we show that concomitant CNS-specific deletion of p53 and Pten in the mouse CNS generates a penetrant acute-onset high-grade malignant glioma phenotype with striking clinical, pathological and molecular resemblance to primary GBM in humans.  This genetic observation prompted p53 and PTEN mutational analysis in human primary GBM, demonstrating unexpectedly frequent inactivating mutations of p53 as well the expected PTEN mutations.  Integrated transcriptomic profling, in silico promoter analysis and functional studies of murine neural stem cells (NSCs) established that dual, but not singular, inactivation of p53 and Pten promotes an undifferentiated state with high renewal potential and drives elevated c-Myc levels and its associated signature.  Functional studies validated increased c-Myc activity as a potent contributor to the impaired differentiation and enhanced renewal of p53-Pten null NSCs as well as tumor neurospheres (TNSs) derived from this model.  c-Myc also serves to maintain robust tumorigenic potential of p53-Pten null TNSs. These murine modeling studies, together with confirmatory transcriptomic/promoter studies in human primary GBM, validate a pathogenetic role of a common tumor suppressor mutation profile in human primary GBM and establish c-Myc as a key target for cooperative actions of p53 and Pten in the regulation of normal and malignant stem/progenitor cell differentiation, self-renewal and tumorigenic potential."'
GSE12694_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the gene expression difference of the p53-null and p53/Pten-doubly null neural stem cell after differentiation ."'
GSE12694_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"transcriptome comparisons of 2 independent p53-null with 3 p53/Pten double-null murine NSCs at 1 day post exposure to the differentiation inducer."'
GSE12712_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was extracted from livers of adult male and female wild type, rsl-null and transgenic mice that overexpress Rsl1 or Rsl2, specifically in the liver. Equivalent amounts of RNA were pooled from five or more mice per sex and genotype. Two pools per sex and genotype were hybridized to the Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430 2.0 array."'
GSE12721_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE12721_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Genome wide chromatin maps have shown that spreading repressive histone modifications such as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3 are present on pericentromeric and telomeric repeats and on the inactive X chromosome where H3K27me3 or H3K9me3 alternately modify megabasepair sized domains. However, only a few regions along an autosome of which Homeobox gene clusters are notable examples, have been shown to display spreading of repressive histone modifications. Here we present a ChIP-Chip map of repressive and active histone modifications along mouse Chr.17 in embryonic, fibroblast cells. Our results show that the majority of H3K27me3 modifications form BLOCs rather than focal peaks. H3K27me3 BLOCs modify silent genes of all types and their flanking intergenic regions, indicating a negative correlation between H3K27me3 and transcription. However, non-transcribed gene-poor regions also lacked H3K27me3. We therefore performed a low resolution analysis of whole mouse Chr.17 which revealed that H3K27me3 specifically marks megabasepair sized domains that are enriched for genes, SINEs and active histone modifications. These genic H3K27me3 domains alternate with similar sized gene-poor domains that are deficient in active histone modifications, but enriched for LINE and LTR transposons as well as H3K9me3 and H4K20me3. Thus, a mouse autosome can be seen to contain alternating chromatin bands that predominantly separate genes from one retrotransposons class, which could offer unique chromatin compartments for the specific regulation of genes or the silencing of transposons."'
GSE12748_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Symptomatic glycerol kinase deficiency (GKD) is associated with episodic metabolic and central nervous system deterioration.  We report here the first application of Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to investigate a knockout (KO) murine model of a human genetic disease.  WGCNA identified networks and key hub transcripts from liver mRNA of glycerol kinase (Gyk) KO and wild type (WT) mice.      Day of life 1 (dol1) samples from KO mice contained a network module enriched for organic acid metabolism before Gyk KO mice develop organic acidemia and die on dol3-4 and the module containing Gyk was enriched with apoptotic genes.  Roles for the highly connected Acot, Psat and Plk3 transcripts were confirmed in cell cultures and subsequently validated by causality testing.  We provide evidence that GK may have an apoptotic moonlighting role that is lost in GKD.    This systems biology strategy has improved our understanding of GKD pathogenesis and suggests possible treatments."'
GSE12748_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Symptomatic glycerol kinase deficiency (GKD) is associated with episodic metabolic and central nervous system deterioration.  We report here the first application of Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to investigate a knockout (KO) murine model of a human genetic disease.  WGCNA identified networks and key hub transcripts from liver mRNA of glycerol kinase (Gyk) KO and wild type (WT) mice.      Day of life 1 (dol1) samples from KO mice contained a network module enriched for organic acid metabolism before Gyk KO mice develop organic acidemia and die on dol3-4 and the module containing Gyk was enriched with apoptotic genes.  Roles for the highly connected Acot, Psat and Plk3 transcripts were confirmed in cell cultures and subsequently validated by causality testing.  We provide evidence that GK may have an apoptotic moonlighting role that is lost in GKD.    This systems biology strategy has improved our understanding of GKD pathogenesis and suggests possible treatments."'
GSE12748_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Male WT and KO mouse pups were sacrificed on day of life (dol) 1 and each liver was harvested.  Total RNA from 4 KO and 3 WT livers was isolated individually.  Affymetrix mus 430 2.0 GeneChips were used to analyze differences in liver gene expression between KO and WT mice.  Dol1 and 3 Gyk KO mice represent different disease states.  Dol 1 was chosen because mice are phenotypically asymptomatic with respect to Glycerol Kinase Deficiency (GKD) and allowed us to look at alterations that occur before the overt disease state.  Dol 3 mice are phenotypically symptomatic with respect to GKD."'
GSE12753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"We established ES cell lines with four different genotypes for Rex1; ES cells carrying the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the empty CAG-IZ vector (wt), the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the Rex1 transgene (wt-Tg), the Rex1-/- alleles and the empty vector(KO), and the Rex1-/- alleles and the Rex1 transgene (KO-Tg). The genetically-engineered ES cell lines were generated to analyze the function of Rex1 in the maintenance of pluripotency and to analyze its gain- and loss-of function. For loss-of-function analysis, we disrupted the endogenous Rex1 allele by conventional gene targeting via homologous recombination in ES cells. The knock-out (KO) allele should be a functionally null allele because the first 100 bp of the open reading frame in the exon 4 including the start codon was replaced by the pacEGFP chimeric gene cassette containing the puromycin-resistant gene (pac) and the green fluorescent protein (Egfp) cDNA. Interestingly, all of the puromycin resistant clones obtained by transfection of this KO vector carried the correctly targeted alleles. One of the Rex1+/- ES cell line (RKPG9) was cultured with high-dose puromycin to obtain the Rex1-/- ES cell lines generated via spontaneous gene conversion. Multiple Rex1-/- ES cell lines were established with extremely high efficiency (4 of 4 clones obtained after the selection were homozygous for Rex1 KO allele). Correct targeting events were confirmed by the loss of the polymorphic signature of the wild-type allele on the southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, in which the 5.6 kb fragment corresponds to the Rex1 pseudogene on chromosome 15 reported previously as well as found in the mouse genome data. Northern blot revealed the loss of the transcript derived from the wild-type allele in Rex1-/- ES cells, which express the large transcripts composed by the truncated Rex1 and pacEGFP. Rex1-/- ES cells were also established by introduction of the second knockout vector carrying the hygromycin-resistant gene as a selection marker."'
GSE12753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"We established ES cell lines with four different genotypes for Rex1; ES cells carrying the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the empty CAG-IZ vector (wt), the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the Rex1 transgene (wt-Tg), the Rex1-/- alleles and the empty vector(KO), and the Rex1-/- alleles and the Rex1 transgene (KO-Tg). The genetically-engineered ES cell lines were generated to analyze the function of Rex1 in the maintenance of pluripotency and to analyze its gain- and loss-of function. For loss-of-function analysis, we disrupted the endogenous Rex1 allele by conventional gene targeting via homologous recombination in ES cells. The knock-out (KO) allele should be a functionally null allele because the first 100 bp of the open reading frame in the exon 4 including the start codon was replaced by the pacEGFP chimeric gene cassette containing the puromycin-resistant gene (pac) and the green fluorescent protein (Egfp) cDNA. Interestingly, all of the puromycin resistant clones obtained by transfection of this KO vector carried the correctly targeted alleles. One of the Rex1+/- ES cell line (RKPG9) was cultured with high-dose puromycin to obtain the Rex1-/- ES cell lines generated via spontaneous gene conversion. Multiple Rex1-/- ES cell lines were established with extremely high efficiency (4 of 4 clones obtained after the selection were homozygous for Rex1 KO allele). Correct targeting events were confirmed by the loss of the polymorphic signature of the wild-type allele on the southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, in which the 5.6 kb fragment corresponds to the Rex1 pseudogene on chromosome 15 reported previously as well as found in the mouse genome data. Northern blot revealed the loss of the transcript derived from the wild-type allele in Rex1-/- ES cells, which express the large transcripts composed by the truncated Rex1 and pacEGFP. Rex1-/- ES cells were also established by introduction of the second knockout vector carrying the hygromycin-resistant gene as a selection marker."'
GSE12753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"We established ES cell lines with four different genotypes for Rex1; ES cells carrying the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the empty CAG-IZ vector (wt), the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the Rex1 transgene (wt-Tg), the Rex1-/- alleles and the empty vector(KO), and the Rex1-/- alleles and the Rex1 transgene (KO-Tg). The genetically-engineered ES cell lines were generated to analyze the function of Rex1 in the maintenance of pluripotency and to analyze its gain- and loss-of function. For loss-of-function analysis, we disrupted the endogenous Rex1 allele by conventional gene targeting via homologous recombination in ES cells. The knock-out (KO) allele should be a functionally null allele because the first 100 bp of the open reading frame in the exon 4 including the start codon was replaced by the pacEGFP chimeric gene cassette containing the puromycin-resistant gene (pac) and the green fluorescent protein (Egfp) cDNA. Interestingly, all of the puromycin resistant clones obtained by transfection of this KO vector carried the correctly targeted alleles. One of the Rex1+/- ES cell line (RKPG9) was cultured with high-dose puromycin to obtain the Rex1-/- ES cell lines generated via spontaneous gene conversion. Multiple Rex1-/- ES cell lines were established with extremely high efficiency (4 of 4 clones obtained after the selection were homozygous for Rex1 KO allele). Correct targeting events were confirmed by the loss of the polymorphic signature of the wild-type allele on the southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, in which the 5.6 kb fragment corresponds to the Rex1 pseudogene on chromosome 15 reported previously as well as found in the mouse genome data. Northern blot revealed the loss of the transcript derived from the wild-type allele in Rex1-/- ES cells, which express the large transcripts composed by the truncated Rex1 and pacEGFP. Rex1-/- ES cells were also established by introduction of the second knockout vector carrying the hygromycin-resistant gene as a selection marker."'
GSE12753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"We established ES cell lines with four different genotypes for Rex1; ES cells carrying the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the empty CAG-IZ vector (wt), the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the Rex1 transgene (wt-Tg), the Rex1-/- alleles and the empty vector(KO), and the Rex1-/- alleles and the Rex1 transgene (KO-Tg). The genetically-engineered ES cell lines were generated to analyze the function of Rex1 in the maintenance of pluripotency and to analyze its gain- and loss-of function. For loss-of-function analysis, we disrupted the endogenous Rex1 allele by conventional gene targeting via homologous recombination in ES cells. The knock-out (KO) allele should be a functionally null allele because the first 100 bp of the open reading frame in the exon 4 including the start codon was replaced by the pacEGFP chimeric gene cassette containing the puromycin-resistant gene (pac) and the green fluorescent protein (Egfp) cDNA. Interestingly, all of the puromycin resistant clones obtained by transfection of this KO vector carried the correctly targeted alleles. One of the Rex1+/- ES cell line (RKPG9) was cultured with high-dose puromycin to obtain the Rex1-/- ES cell lines generated via spontaneous gene conversion. Multiple Rex1-/- ES cell lines were established with extremely high efficiency (4 of 4 clones obtained after the selection were homozygous for Rex1 KO allele). Correct targeting events were confirmed by the loss of the polymorphic signature of the wild-type allele on the southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, in which the 5.6 kb fragment corresponds to the Rex1 pseudogene on chromosome 15 reported previously as well as found in the mouse genome data. Northern blot revealed the loss of the transcript derived from the wild-type allele in Rex1-/- ES cells, which express the large transcripts composed by the truncated Rex1 and pacEGFP. Rex1-/- ES cells were also established by introduction of the second knockout vector carrying the hygromycin-resistant gene as a selection marker."'
GSE12753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"We established ES cell lines with four different genotypes for Rex1; ES cells carrying the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the empty CAG-IZ vector (wt), the wild-type Rex1 alleles and the Rex1 transgene (wt-Tg), the Rex1-/- alleles and the empty vector(KO), and the Rex1-/- alleles and the Rex1 transgene (KO-Tg). The genetically-engineered ES cell lines were generated to analyze the function of Rex1 in the maintenance of pluripotency and to analyze its gain- and loss-of function. For loss-of-function analysis, we disrupted the endogenous Rex1 allele by conventional gene targeting via homologous recombination in ES cells. The knock-out (KO) allele should be a functionally null allele because the first 100 bp of the open reading frame in the exon 4 including the start codon was replaced by the pacEGFP chimeric gene cassette containing the puromycin-resistant gene (pac) and the green fluorescent protein (Egfp) cDNA. Interestingly, all of the puromycin resistant clones obtained by transfection of this KO vector carried the correctly targeted alleles. One of the Rex1+/- ES cell line (RKPG9) was cultured with high-dose puromycin to obtain the Rex1-/- ES cell lines generated via spontaneous gene conversion. Multiple Rex1-/- ES cell lines were established with extremely high efficiency (4 of 4 clones obtained after the selection were homozygous for Rex1 KO allele). Correct targeting events were confirmed by the loss of the polymorphic signature of the wild-type allele on the southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, in which the 5.6 kb fragment corresponds to the Rex1 pseudogene on chromosome 15 reported previously as well as found in the mouse genome data. Northern blot revealed the loss of the transcript derived from the wild-type allele in Rex1-/- ES cells, which express the large transcripts composed by the truncated Rex1 and pacEGFP. Rex1-/- ES cells were also established by introduction of the second knockout vector carrying the hygromycin-resistant gene as a selection marker."'
GSE12757_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We examined the construction of the piRNA system in the restricted developmental window in which methylation patterns are set during mammalian embryogenesis. We find robust expression of two Piwi family proteins, MIWI2 and MILI. Their associated piRNA profiles reveal differences from Drosophila wherein large piRNA clusters act as master regulators of silencing. Instead, in mammals, dispersed transposon copies initiate the pathway, producing primary piRNAs, which predominantly join MILI in the cytoplasm. MIWI2, whose nuclear localization and association with piRNAs depend upon MILI, is enriched for secondary piRNAs antisense to the elements that it controls. The Piwi pathway lies upstream of known mediators of DNA methylation, since piRNAs are still produced in Dnmt3L mutants, which fail to methylate transposons.  This implicates piRNAs as specificity determinants of DNA methylation in germ cells."'
GSE12863_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Breast TAMs were isolated from early-stage PyMT-induced mammary tumors expressing Ets2 and also from the tumors with Ets2-deficient TAMs. Since macrophages have also been implicated in normal mammary gland remodeling, normal remeodeling macrophages were also purified from females expressing Ets2 and the ones where Ets2 is deleted in the macrophages. One RNA sample was extracted from each genetic group for gene-expression profiling."'
GSE12881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Here, we show that functional loss of a single gene is sufficient to confer constitutive milk protein production and protection against mammary tumor formation. Caveolin-3 (Cav-3), a muscle-specific caveolin-related gene, is highly expressed in striated and smooth muscle cells. We demonstrate that Cav-3 is also expressed in myoepithelial cells within the mammary gland. To determine if genetic ablation of Cav-3 expression affects adult mammary gland development, we next studied the phenotype(s) of Cav-3 (-/-) null mice. Interestingly, detailed analysis of Cav-3 (-/-) virgin mammary glands shows dramatic increases in ductal thickness, side-branching, and the development of extensive lobulo-alveolar hyperplasia, akin to the changes normally observed during pregnancy and lactation. Analysis by genome-wide expression profiling reveals the upregulation of gene transcripts associated with pregnancy/lactation, mammary stem cells, and human breast cancers, consistent with a constitutive lactogenic phenotype. The expression levels of three key transcriptional regulators of lactation, namely Elf5, Stat5a, and c-Myc are also significantly elevated. Experiments with pregnant mice directly show that Cav-3 (-/-) mice undergo precocious lactation. Finally, using orthotopic implantation of a transformed mammary cell line (known as Met-1), we demonstrate that virgin Cav-3 (-/-) mice are dramatically protected against mammary tumor formation. Interestingly, Cav-3 (+/-) mice also show similar protection, indicating that even reductions in Cav-3 levels are sufficient to render these mice resistant to tumorigenesis. Thus, Cav-3 (-/-) mice are a novel preclinical model to study the protective effects of a constitutive lactogenic microenviroment on mammary tumor onset and progression. Our current studies have broad implications for using the lactogenic micro-environment as a paradigm to discover new therapies for the prevention and/or treatment of human breast cancers. Most importantly, a lactation-based therapeutic strategy would provide a more natural and nontoxic approach to the development of novel anti-cancer therapies."'
GSE12881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Here, we show that functional loss of a single gene is sufficient to confer constitutive milk protein production and protection against mammary tumor formation. Caveolin-3 (Cav-3), a muscle-specific caveolin-related gene, is highly expressed in striated and smooth muscle cells. We demonstrate that Cav-3 is also expressed in myoepithelial cells within the mammary gland. To determine if genetic ablation of Cav-3 expression affects adult mammary gland development, we next studied the phenotype(s) of Cav-3 (-/-) null mice. Interestingly, detailed analysis of Cav-3 (-/-) virgin mammary glands shows dramatic increases in ductal thickness, side-branching, and the development of extensive lobulo-alveolar hyperplasia, akin to the changes normally observed during pregnancy and lactation. Analysis by genome-wide expression profiling reveals the upregulation of gene transcripts associated with pregnancy/lactation, mammary stem cells, and human breast cancers, consistent with a constitutive lactogenic phenotype. The expression levels of three key transcriptional regulators of lactation, namely Elf5, Stat5a, and c-Myc are also significantly elevated. Experiments with pregnant mice directly show that Cav-3 (-/-) mice undergo precocious lactation. Finally, using orthotopic implantation of a transformed mammary cell line (known as Met-1), we demonstrate that virgin Cav-3 (-/-) mice are dramatically protected against mammary tumor formation. Interestingly, Cav-3 (+/-) mice also show similar protection, indicating that even reductions in Cav-3 levels are sufficient to render these mice resistant to tumorigenesis. Thus, Cav-3 (-/-) mice are a novel preclinical model to study the protective effects of a constitutive lactogenic microenviroment on mammary tumor onset and progression. Our current studies have broad implications for using the lactogenic micro-environment as a paradigm to discover new therapies for the prevention and/or treatment of human breast cancers. Most importantly, a lactation-based therapeutic strategy would provide a more natural and nontoxic approach to the development of novel anti-cancer therapies."'
GSE12881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"All WT and Cav-3 knockout (KO) mice used in this study were in the FVB/N genetic background. 4-month old virgin female mice were utilized in a micro array study between 3 wildtype and 3 Caveolin-3 knock-out mammary glands."'
GSE12881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"All WT and Cav-3 knockout (KO) mice used in this study were in the FVB/N genetic background. 4-month old virgin female mice were utilized in a micro array study between 3 wildtype and 3 Caveolin-3 knock-out mammary glands."'
GSE12881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"All WT and Cav-3 knockout (KO) mice used in this study were in the FVB/N genetic background. 4-month old virgin female mice were utilized in a micro array study between 3 wildtype and 3 Caveolin-3 knock-out mammary glands."'
GSE12882_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Skeletal muscle actin mice (Crawford et al., (2002) Mol Cell Biol 22, 5587) were crossed with cardiac actin transgenic mice (termed ""ACTC^Coco"" or ""Coco"" for short), to produce mice that had cardiac actin instead of skeletal muscle actin in their skeletal muscles (termed ""ACTC^Co/KO"" or for short ""Coco/KO"").  Microarray analysis using the Illumina mouse-6 v1.1 expression beadchip was performed on RNA extraced from the soleus muscle of Coco/KO mice and wildtype mice, to confirm the swith in actin isoform expression, and to determine what other differences might exist between wildtype mice and the Coco/KO mice."'
GSE12882_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"3 RNA samples (each being the pool of two individual samples extracted from different soleus muscles from different individual mice) per genotype (either wildtype or Coco/KO) were used.  The total 6 RNA samples were processed using an Illumina mouse-6 v1.1expression beadchip and then the differentially expressed genes determined."'
GSE12905_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Comparison of Foxl2-null ovaries to wildtype ovaries, ovaries lacking Wnt4 or Kit, or testes, throughout mouse development."'
GSE12905_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Comparison of Foxl2-null ovaries to wildtype ovaries, ovaries lacking Wnt4 or Kit, or testes, throughout mouse development."'
GSE12908_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression following miR-30a knockdown in bipotential mouse embryonic liver (BMEL) cells"'
GSE12942_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Partial loss of function of the transcription factor FOXL2 leads to premature ovarian failure in women. In animal models, Foxl2 is required for maintenance, and possibly induction, of female sex determination independently of other critical genes, i.e., Rspo1 and Wnt4. Here we report expression profiling of mouse ovaries that lack Foxl2 alone or in combination with Wnt4 or Kit/c-Kit, to identify ovarian targets of Foxl2 that, along with some testis genes, were dysregulated during embryonic development. Loss of one copy of Foxl2 revealed strong gene dosage sensitivity, with molecular anomalies that were milder but resembled ovaries lacking both Foxl2 alleles. Furthermore, a Foxl2 transgene disrupted embryonic testis differentiation and increased the levels of key female markers. The results, including a comprehensive principal component analysis of published microarray datasets 1) support the proposal of dose-dependent Foxl2 function and anti-testis action throughout ovary differentiation; and 2) identify candidate genes for a role in sex determination independent of FOXL2 (notably, the transcription factor, ZBTB7C) and in the generation of the ovarian reserve downstream of it (e.g., the cadherin-domain protein CLSTN2, or the sphingomyelin synthase, SGMS2). The gene inventory provides a framework to analyze the genetic bases of ovarian development and female fertility."'
GSE12942_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Partial loss of function of the transcription factor FOXL2 leads to premature ovarian failure in women. In animal models, Foxl2 is required for maintenance, and possibly induction, of female sex determination independently of other critical genes, i.e., Rspo1 and Wnt4. Here we report expression profiling of mouse ovaries that lack Foxl2 alone or in combination with Wnt4 or Kit/c-Kit, to identify ovarian targets of Foxl2 that, along with some testis genes, were dysregulated during embryonic development. Loss of one copy of Foxl2 revealed strong gene dosage sensitivity, with molecular anomalies that were milder but resembled ovaries lacking both Foxl2 alleles. Furthermore, a Foxl2 transgene disrupted embryonic testis differentiation and increased the levels of key female markers. The results, including a comprehensive principal component analysis of published microarray datasets 1) support the proposal of dose-dependent Foxl2 function and anti-testis action throughout ovary differentiation; and 2) identify candidate genes for a role in sex determination independent of FOXL2 (notably, the transcription factor, ZBTB7C) and in the generation of the ovarian reserve downstream of it (e.g., the cadherin-domain protein CLSTN2, or the sphingomyelin synthase, SGMS2). The gene inventory provides a framework to analyze the genetic bases of ovarian development and female fertility."'
GSE12956_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The homeobox containing gene Arx is expressed during ventral telencephalon development and it is required for correct GABAergic interneuron tangential migration from the ganglionic eminences to the olfactory bulbs, cerebral cortex and striatum. Its human ortholog is associated with a variety of neurological clinical manifestations whose syntoms are compatible with a loss of cortical interneurons and altered basal ganglia related-activities in humans. Herein, we reported the identification by global expression profiling of a group of genes whose expression is consistently altered in Arx mutant ganglionic eminences. Following analysis revealed the striking ectopic expression in the ganglionic eminences of a number of genes normally not, or only marginally, expressed in the ventral telencephalon. Among them, we functionally analyzed Ebf3, whose ectopic expression in ventral telencephalon is preventingneuronal tangential migration. Further, we showed that Arx is sufficient to repress Ebf3 endogenous expression and that its silencing in Arx mutant tissue might marginally rescue tangential cell movements. Together, these data provide an initial analysis of the molecular pathways regulated by Arx and how their networking might regulate those specific cellular processes during telencephalon development strongly altered by loss of Arx."'
GSE12956_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The homeobox containing gene Arx is expressed during ventral telencephalon development and it is required for correct GABAergic interneuron tangential migration from the ganglionic eminences to the olfactory bulbs, cerebral cortex and striatum. Its human ortholog is associated with a variety of neurological clinical manifestations whose syntoms are compatible with a loss of cortical interneurons and altered basal ganglia related-activities in humans. Herein, we reported the identification by global expression profiling of a group of genes whose expression is consistently altered in Arx mutant ganglionic eminences. Following analysis revealed the striking ectopic expression in the ganglionic eminences of a number of genes normally not, or only marginally, expressed in the ventral telencephalon. Among them, we functionally analyzed Ebf3, whose ectopic expression in ventral telencephalon is preventingneuronal tangential migration. Further, we showed that Arx is sufficient to repress Ebf3 endogenous expression and that its silencing in Arx mutant tissue might marginally rescue tangential cell movements. Together, these data provide an initial analysis of the molecular pathways regulated by Arx and how their networking might regulate those specific cellular processes during telencephalon development strongly altered by loss of Arx."'
GSE12965-GPL6193_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Wild type vs. Nova2 KO mouse P10 cortex RNA"'
GSE12965-GPL8940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Wild type vs. Nova2 KO mouse P10 cortex RNA"'
GSE12982_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"To assay the global effects of the loss of polycomb proteins (Ezh2 or Eed) in embryonic stem (ES) cells , we compared the expression profiles of homologuous Ezh2 or Eed knockout ES cells to wild-type ES cells in undifferentiated or differentiated condition."'
GSE12982_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"To assay the global effects of the loss of polycomb proteins (Ezh2 or Eed) in embryonic stem (ES) cells , we compared the expression profiles of homologuous Ezh2 or Eed knockout ES cells to wild-type ES cells in undifferentiated or differentiated condition."'
GSE12986_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"To identify whether Cdx2 or Gata3 can activate trophoblast specific gene expression when expressed in R1 ES cells. To assess the dependency of Gata3 activity on Cdx2, Gata3 was also expressed in Cdx2-null ES cells."'
GSE13033_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Differentially expressed genes in brain tissue from HtrA2 knockout mice"'
GSE13033_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Cellular stress responses can be activated following functional defects in organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by loss of the serine protease HtrA2 leads to a progressive movement disorder in mice and has been linked to parkinsonian neurodegeneration in humans. Here we demonstrate that loss of HtrA2 results in transcriptional up-regulation of nuclear genes characteristic of the integrated stress response, including the transcription factor CHOP, selectively in the brain. We also show that loss of HtrA2 results in the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the mitochondria, defective mitochondrial respiration and enhanced production of reactive oxygen species that contribute to the induction of CHOP expression and to neuronal cell death. CHOP expression is also significantly increased in Parkinson’s disease patients’ brain tissue. We therefore propose that this brain-specific transcriptional response to stress may be important in the advance of neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE13033_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment was set out to identify genes that are differentially expressed in brain tissue from the cortex of HtrA2 knockout (KO) mice compared to wild type (WT) littermates. We chose a cortical region since there is no evidence of neuronal loss in this region enabling us to compare mRNA transcripts in identical cellular populations. Brains of littermate WT and HtrA2 KO mice were dissected to obtain cortex tissue at post-natal day 29 (P29). RNA was isolated and samples were processed for hybridisation (6 samples in total, 3 replicates for each genotype)."'
GSE13033_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment was set out to identify genes that are differentially expressed in brain tissue from the cortex of HtrA2 knockout (KO) mice compared to wild type (WT) littermates. We chose a cortical region since there is no evidence of neuronal loss in this region enabling us to compare mRNA transcripts in identical cellular populations. Brains of littermate WT and HtrA2 KO mice were dissected to obtain cortex tissue at post-natal day 29 (P29). RNA was isolated and samples were processed for hybridisation (6 samples in total, 3 replicates for each genotype)."'
GSE13034_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Differentially regulated genes in HtrA2 knockout MEFs upon rotenone treatment"'
GSE13034_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Cellular stress responses can be activated following functional defects in organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by loss of the serine protease HtrA2 leads to a progressive movement disorder in mice and has been linked to parkinsonian neurodegeneration in humans. Here we demonstrate that loss of HtrA2 results in transcriptional up-regulation of nuclear genes characteristic of the integrated stress response, including the transcription factor CHOP, selectively in the brain. We also show that loss of HtrA2 results in the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the mitochondria, defective mitochondrial respiration and enhanced production of reactive oxygen species that contribute to the induction of CHOP expression and to neuronal cell death. CHOP expression is also significantly increased in Parkinson’s disease patients’ brain tissue. We therefore propose that this brain-specific transcriptional response to stress may be important in the advance of neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE13034_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment was set out to identify genes that are differentially regulated upon rotenone treatment in HtrA2 knockout (KO) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) compared to wild type (WT) MEFs. Primary MEFs were isolated and at passage 4 subjected to treatment with vehicle (control) or 1 μM rotenone (rot) for 4 hrs. 3 replicates were performed. RNA was isolated and samples were processed for hybridisation (12 samples in total)."'
GSE13034_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"This experiment was set out to identify genes that are differentially regulated upon rotenone treatment in HtrA2 knockout (KO) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) compared to wild type (WT) MEFs. Primary MEFs were isolated and at passage 4 subjected to treatment with vehicle (control) or 1 μM rotenone (rot) for 4 hrs. 3 replicates were performed. RNA was isolated and samples were processed for hybridisation (12 samples in total)."'
GSE13035-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Mitochondrial dysfunction by loss of HtrA2 results in the activation of a brain-specific transcriptional stress response"'
GSE13035-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Cellular stress responses can be activated following functional defects in organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by loss of the serine protease HtrA2 leads to a progressive movement disorder in mice and has been linked to parkinsonian neurodegeneration in humans. Here we demonstrate that loss of HtrA2 results in transcriptional up-regulation of nuclear genes characteristic of the integrated stress response, including the transcription factor CHOP, selectively in the brain. We also show that loss of HtrA2 results in the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the mitochondria, defective mitochondrial respiration and enhanced production of reactive oxygen species that contribute to the induction of CHOP expression and to neuronal cell death. CHOP expression is also significantly increased in Parkinson’s disease patients’ brain tissue. We therefore propose that this brain-specific transcriptional response to stress may be important in the advance of neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE13035-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Mitochondrial dysfunction by loss of HtrA2 results in the activation of a brain-specific transcriptional stress response"'
GSE13035-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Cellular stress responses can be activated following functional defects in organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by loss of the serine protease HtrA2 leads to a progressive movement disorder in mice and has been linked to parkinsonian neurodegeneration in humans. Here we demonstrate that loss of HtrA2 results in transcriptional up-regulation of nuclear genes characteristic of the integrated stress response, including the transcription factor CHOP, selectively in the brain. We also show that loss of HtrA2 results in the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the mitochondria, defective mitochondrial respiration and enhanced production of reactive oxygen species that contribute to the induction of CHOP expression and to neuronal cell death. CHOP expression is also significantly increased in Parkinson’s disease patients’ brain tissue. We therefore propose that this brain-specific transcriptional response to stress may be important in the advance of neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"The effects of temporally restricted feeding on hepatic gene expression of Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice"'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_title	"The effects of temporally restricted feeding on hepatic gene expression of Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice"'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Restricted feeding impacts the hepatic circadian clock of WT mice. Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice lack a circadian clock and are thus expected to show rhythmical gene expression in the liver. Imposing a temporally restricted feeding schedule on these mice  shows how the hepatic circadian clock and rhythmic food intake regulate rhythmic transcription in parallel "'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_summary	"Restricted feeding impacts the hepatic circadian clock of WT mice. Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice lack a circadian clock and are thus expected to show rhythmical gene expression in the liver. Imposing a temporally restricted feeding schedule on these mice  shows how the hepatic circadian clock and rhythmic food intake regulate rhythmic transcription in parallel "'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice were entrained either to ad libitum or temporally restricted feeding (tRF) schedules. Food was made available to mice under the tRF regimen only between ZT(CT)1 and ZT(CT)9. Mice were then released into constant darkness while the respective feeding schedules were still maintained. Liver tissue was collected on the second day of constant darkness at the indicated timepoints. Total RNA was extracted and 5ug of RNA was used in the standard Affymetrix protocol for amplification, labeling and hybridization"'
GSE13062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cry1, Cry2 double KO mice were entrained either to ad libitum or temporally restricted feeding (tRF) schedules. Food was made available to mice under the tRF regimen only between ZT(CT)1 and ZT(CT)9. Mice were then released into constant darkness while the respective feeding schedules were still maintained. Liver tissue was collected on the second day of constant darkness at the indicated timepoints. Total RNA was extracted and 5ug of RNA was used in the standard Affymetrix protocol for amplification, labeling and hybridization"'
GSE13106_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation of SMAD proteins determine the cellular response to activin.  Here we identify a novel means by which activin signalling is regulated to enable developmental stage-specific SMAD gene transcription.  In response to activin A, immature proliferating mouse Sertoli cells exhibit nuclear accumulation of SMAD3, but not SMAD2, although both proteins are phosphorylated.  In post-mitotic differentiating cells, both SMAD2 and SMAD3 accumulate in the nucleus.  Furthermore, immature Sertoli cells are sensitive to activin dosage; at higher concentrations maximal SMAD3 nuclear accumulation is observed, accompanied by a small, but significant, increase in nuclear SMAD2.  Microarray analysis confirmed that differential SMAD utilization correlated with altered transcriptional outcomes and identified new activin target genes, Gja1 and Serpina5, which are known to be required for Sertoli cell development and male fertility.  In immature Sertoli cells, genetic or transient knockdown of SMAD3 enhanced SMAD2 nuclear accumulation in response to activin, with increased Serpina5 mRNA levels associated with nuclear localized SMAD2.  In transgenic mice with altered activin bioactivity that display male fertility phenotypes, testicular Gja1 and Serpina5 mRNA levels reflected altered in vivo activin levels.  We conclude that regulated nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated SMAD2 is a novel determinant of developmentally regulated activin signalling."'
GSE13123_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Aneuploidy, and especially the presence of unpaired chromosomal axes during meiosis, can cause infertility.  However, it is not known if extra, unpaired autosomal chromosome segments acquire characteristic protein modifications and undergo transcriptional silencing (meiotic silencing of unpaired chromatin, or MSUC) similar to the unpaired regions of the X and Y chromosomes during spermatogenesis.  We used three mouse models of Down syndrome, involving either an extra chromosome or translocation trisomy, to test requirements and consequences of meiotic protein modification and gene silencing in spermatocytes.  These models reveal that copy number alone is not sufficient for up-regulation of genes in the trisomic interval, and that MSUC-promoting modifications are not sufficient for down-regulation of genes that reside in unpaired chromatin during meiosis.  The position of a trisomic region relative to a centromere, the pairing status of the centromere, and the physical extent of the unpaired chromosomal region all affected assembly of meiotic protein modifications typical of MSUC.  One key determinant to modification of unpaired chromatin and infertility in trisomy male mice appears to be proximity of unpaired chromatin to a centromere.  Furthermore, the presence of an extra, unpaired centromere, but not translocation trisomy, causes global misregulation of transcription in spermatocytes.  Thus, neither trisomy per se, nor chromatin modifications of unpaired chromosomal segments, have major effects on gene expression or meiotic success, but an intact unpaired chromosome has profoundly negative effects on meiotic gene expression."'
GSE13125-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"PU.1 is a key transcription factor for macrophage differentiation. Novel PU.1 target genes were identified by mRNA profiling of PU.1-deficient progenitor cells (PUER) before and after PU.1 activation. We used two different types of Affymetrix DNA-microarrays (430 2.0 arrays and ST 1.0 exon arrays) to characterize the global PU.1-regulated transcriptional program underlying the early processes of macrophage differentiation."'
GSE13125-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"PU.1 is a key transcription factor for macrophage differentiation. Novel PU.1 target genes were identified by mRNA profiling of PU.1-deficient progenitor cells (PUER) before and after PU.1 activation. We used two different types of Affymetrix DNA-microarrays (430 2.0 arrays and ST 1.0 exon arrays) to characterize the global PU.1-regulated transcriptional program underlying the early processes of macrophage differentiation."'
GSE13130_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Langerhans cells from aryl hydrocarbon receptor deficient mice"'
GSE13130_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: comparison gene deficient mouse cells with wild-type"'
GSE13130_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"ear skin epidermal sheets from AhR exon2 deficient mice and wildtype C57BL/6 mice were isolated and cultivated for 16 hours in standard medium. Tissues were then homogenized and Langerhans cells isolated via BSA gradient and cell sorting to greater 95% purity. RNA was preparedand amplified prior to chip-hybridization using the MessageAmp™ Kit of Ambion (Woodward St. Austin, USA). RNA was biotinylated (Enzo Bio Array™HighYield™ RNA transcript labeling kit (Affymetrix, High Wycombe, UK)) and purified. RNA was hybridized to MOE430A gene chips (Affymetrix)."'
GSE13140_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Basal and IL-4 response in DAP12 (TYROBP) KO mice"'
GSE13140_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"The current experiment was designed to evaluate the effect of DAP12 knockdown on macrophage gene expression, both in basal conditions and in the response to IL-4."'
GSE13143_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"SMRT (silencing mediator of retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors) is recruited by numerous transcription factors to mediate lineage and signal dependent transcriptional repression.  We generated a knock-in mutation in the receptor interaction domain (RID) of SMRT (SMRTmRID) that solely disrupts its interaction with nuclear hormone receptors.  SMRTmRID-derived 3T3-MEFs display a dramatically increased adipogenic capacity and accelerated differentiation rate.  We measured global gene expression in wild-type versus SMRTmRID-derived 3T3-MEFs in the undifferentiated state to examine which pathways were altered. Our results demonstrate that SMRT-RID dependent repression is a key determinant of the adipogenic set point."'
GSE13147_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found '-/-' in '!Series_summary	"Microarray analysis of Myd88-/-Trif-/- and Myd88-/-Rip2-/- macrophage responses to WT or dotA mutant L. pneumophila."'
GSE13147_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found '-/-' in '!Series_overall_design	"Bone marrow-derived macrophages from Myd88-/-Trif-/- and Myd88-/-Rip2-/- mice were infected with WT L. pneumophila (Lp02) or dotA mutant L. pneumophila (Lp03) for 4 hours. The RNA was extracted, processed, and hybridized onto Affymetrix 430 2.0 microarrays"'
GSE13163_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"A microarray study performed in the pancreatic lymph nodes of Deaf1 knock-out and BALB/c control mice to identify genes that are regulated by the transcriptional regulator Deaf1.  These experiments constitute a portion of the study described below:"'
GSE13163_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Deaf1-KO mice (4 wk old) and age-matched BALB/c control mice were sacrificed, and the PLN were removed and immediately homogenized in Trizol Reagent.  RNA was extracted in Trizol and then purified using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). RNA quality was assessed using the Agilent RNA 6000 Nano Reagents, RNA Nano chips, and the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies), according to manufacturer’s instructions.  Control and Deaf1-KO mouse RNA was amplified, labeled with Cy3 and Cy5, respectively, and combined with spike A and spike B mix, respectively, using the Agilent low RNA input fluorescence linear amplification kit (Agilent Technologies).  The amplified cRNA was purified using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen), and specific activity was determined with the NanoDrop 1000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Scientific).   Samples were prepared with the gene expression hybridization kit (Agilent Technologies) and two color microarrays were performed using the whole mouse genome (4x44K) Oligo microarray kit, according to manufacturer’s instructions.  Microarray chips were washed and scanned using the DNA microarray scanner (Agilent Technologies).  Data was processed with Feature Extraction Software (Agilent Technologies), and analyzed using GeneSpring GX 7.3 Software (Agilent Technologies).  This submission shows the data obtained from two individual Deaf1 knockout mice measured against a pool of 4 BALB/c control mice. "'
GSE13163_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Deaf1-KO mice (4 wk old) and age-matched BALB/c control mice were sacrificed, and the PLN were removed and immediately homogenized in Trizol Reagent.  RNA was extracted in Trizol and then purified using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). RNA quality was assessed using the Agilent RNA 6000 Nano Reagents, RNA Nano chips, and the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies), according to manufacturer’s instructions.  Control and Deaf1-KO mouse RNA was amplified, labeled with Cy3 and Cy5, respectively, and combined with spike A and spike B mix, respectively, using the Agilent low RNA input fluorescence linear amplification kit (Agilent Technologies).  The amplified cRNA was purified using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen), and specific activity was determined with the NanoDrop 1000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Scientific).   Samples were prepared with the gene expression hybridization kit (Agilent Technologies) and two color microarrays were performed using the whole mouse genome (4x44K) Oligo microarray kit, according to manufacturer’s instructions.  Microarray chips were washed and scanned using the DNA microarray scanner (Agilent Technologies).  Data was processed with Feature Extraction Software (Agilent Technologies), and analyzed using GeneSpring GX 7.3 Software (Agilent Technologies).  This submission shows the data obtained from two individual Deaf1 knockout mice measured against a pool of 4 BALB/c control mice. "'
GSE13190_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Global gene-expression analyses of the Esrrb reprogrammed cells and Esrrb knockdown cells"'
GSE13192_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Liver X receptors (LXRs) are important regulators of cholesterol, lipid and glucose metabolism and have been extensively studied in liver, macrophages and adipose tissue. However, their role in skeletal muscle is not yet fully elucidated and the functional role of each of the LXRα and LXRβ subtypes in skeletal muscle is at present unknown. To study the importance of each of the receptor subtypes, myotube cultures derived from wild type (WT), LXRα and LXRβ knockout (KO) mice were established. The present study shows that treatment with the unselective LXR agonist T0901317 increased mRNA levels of LXR target genes such as sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1), fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) and ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) in myotubes established from WT and LXRα KO mice. However, only minor changes in expression level were observed for these genes after treatment with T0901317 in myotubes from LXRβ KO mice. Gene expression analysis using Affymetrix NuGO Genechip arrays showed that few other genes than the classical, well known LXR target genes were regulated by LXR in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, functional studies using radiolabeled substrates showed that treatment with T0901317 increased lipogenesis and apoA1 dependent cholesterol efflux, in myotubes from WT and LXRα KO mice, but not LXRβ KO mice. The data suggest that the lipogenic effects of LXRs, as well as the LXR-stimulated cholesterol efflux, are mainly mediated by LXRβ in skeletal muscle."'
GSE13192_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Liver X receptors (LXRs) are important regulators of cholesterol, lipid and glucose metabolism and have been extensively studied in liver, macrophages and adipose tissue. However, their role in skeletal muscle is not yet fully elucidated and the functional role of each of the LXRα and LXRβ subtypes in skeletal muscle is at present unknown. To study the importance of each of the receptor subtypes, myotube cultures derived from wild type (WT), LXRα and LXRβ knockout (KO) mice were established. The present study shows that treatment with the unselective LXR agonist T0901317 increased mRNA levels of LXR target genes such as sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1), fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) and ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) in myotubes established from WT and LXRα KO mice. However, only minor changes in expression level were observed for these genes after treatment with T0901317 in myotubes from LXRβ KO mice. Gene expression analysis using Affymetrix NuGO Genechip arrays showed that few other genes than the classical, well known LXR target genes were regulated by LXR in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, functional studies using radiolabeled substrates showed that treatment with T0901317 increased lipogenesis and apoA1 dependent cholesterol efflux, in myotubes from WT and LXRα KO mice, but not LXRβ KO mice. The data suggest that the lipogenic effects of LXRs, as well as the LXR-stimulated cholesterol efflux, are mainly mediated by LXRβ in skeletal muscle."'
GSE13192_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"To study the importance of each of the receptor subtypes, myotube cultures derived from wild type (WT), LXRa and LXRb knockout (KO) mice were established. Sixteen samples were examined. Half the samples were treated with the unselective LXR agonist T0901317."'
GSE13192_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"To study the importance of each of the receptor subtypes, myotube cultures derived from wild type (WT), LXRa and LXRb knockout (KO) mice were established. Sixteen samples were examined. Half the samples were treated with the unselective LXR agonist T0901317."'
GSE13207_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We completed genome-wide microarray analysis in Sirt6 knockout (ko) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and control wildtype (wt) MEFs. Prior to RNA extraction, MEFs were treated with TNF-alpha (10 ng/ml) for the indicated times. Total RNA was extracted with TRIzol (Invitrogen) and amplified with Ambion Amino Allyl MessageAmp II Amplification kit. Amplified mouse Universal Reference RNA (Stratagene) was used as reference RNA for analysis. Array hybridization of mouse MEEBO arrays is as described (Hendrickson et al., PLoS ONE, 2008)."'
GSE13207_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_summary	"We completed genome-wide microarray analysis in Sirt6 knockout (ko) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and control wildtype (wt) MEFs. Prior to RNA extraction, MEFs were treated with TNF-alpha (10 ng/ml) for the indicated times. Total RNA was extracted with TRIzol (Invitrogen) and amplified with Ambion Amino Allyl MessageAmp II Amplification kit. Amplified mouse Universal Reference RNA (Stratagene) was used as reference RNA for analysis. Array hybridization of mouse MEEBO arrays is as described (Hendrickson et al., PLoS ONE, 2008)."'
GSE13212_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Global gene-expression analyses of the Esrrb knockdown cells"'
GSE13212_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Global gene expression effects of silencing the Esrrb gene. We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression after silencing the Esrrb gene."'
GSE13212_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three biological replicates each for control GFP and Esrrb RNAi. The global gene expression profiles of the Esrrb knockdown cells were compared to control GFP knockdown cells for days 2, 4 and 6."'
GSE13247-GPL4128_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"A role for mammalian Sin3 in permanent gene silencing"'
GSE13247-GPL4128_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The multi-subunit Sin3 co-repressor complex regulates gene transcription through deacetylation of nucleosomes. However, the full range of Sin3 activities and targets is not well understood. Here, we have investigated genome-wide binding of mouse Sin3 and RBP2 as well as histone modifications and nucleosome positioning as a function of myogenic differentiation. Remarkably, we find that Sin3 complexes spread immediately downstream of the transcription start site on repressed and transcribed genes during differentiation. We show that RBP2 is part of a Sin3 complex, and on a subset of E2F4 target genes, the coordinated activity of Sin3 and RBP2 leads to deacetylation, demethylation, and repositioning of nucleosomes. Our work provides evidence for coordinated binding of Sin3, chromatin modifications, and chromatin remodeling within discrete regulatory regions, suggesting a model in which spreading of Sin3 binding is ultimately linked to permanent gene silencing on a subset of E2F4 target genes. "'
GSE13247-GPL4129_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"A role for mammalian Sin3 in permanent gene silencing"'
GSE13247-GPL4129_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The multi-subunit Sin3 co-repressor complex regulates gene transcription through deacetylation of nucleosomes. However, the full range of Sin3 activities and targets is not well understood. Here, we have investigated genome-wide binding of mouse Sin3 and RBP2 as well as histone modifications and nucleosome positioning as a function of myogenic differentiation. Remarkably, we find that Sin3 complexes spread immediately downstream of the transcription start site on repressed and transcribed genes during differentiation. We show that RBP2 is part of a Sin3 complex, and on a subset of E2F4 target genes, the coordinated activity of Sin3 and RBP2 leads to deacetylation, demethylation, and repositioning of nucleosomes. Our work provides evidence for coordinated binding of Sin3, chromatin modifications, and chromatin remodeling within discrete regulatory regions, suggesting a model in which spreading of Sin3 binding is ultimately linked to permanent gene silencing on a subset of E2F4 target genes. "'
GSE13247-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"A role for mammalian Sin3 in permanent gene silencing"'
GSE13247-GPL8321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The multi-subunit Sin3 co-repressor complex regulates gene transcription through deacetylation of nucleosomes. However, the full range of Sin3 activities and targets is not well understood. Here, we have investigated genome-wide binding of mouse Sin3 and RBP2 as well as histone modifications and nucleosome positioning as a function of myogenic differentiation. Remarkably, we find that Sin3 complexes spread immediately downstream of the transcription start site on repressed and transcribed genes during differentiation. We show that RBP2 is part of a Sin3 complex, and on a subset of E2F4 target genes, the coordinated activity of Sin3 and RBP2 leads to deacetylation, demethylation, and repositioning of nucleosomes. Our work provides evidence for coordinated binding of Sin3, chromatin modifications, and chromatin remodeling within discrete regulatory regions, suggesting a model in which spreading of Sin3 binding is ultimately linked to permanent gene silencing on a subset of E2F4 target genes. "'
GSE13298_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Rb1 deficient Apc1638N cecal tumors vs duodenal tumors"'
GSE13298_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"We have compared 3 cecal tumors with 3 duodenal tumors from Rb1 deficient Apc1638N mice."'
GSE13312_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gene expression patterns were compared between p53 wt MEF and p53-null MEF cells."'
GSE13333_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Srf conditional knockout in the mouse liver"'
GSE13333_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Serum response factor (SRF) is a transcription factor that binds to the serum response element (SRE) of genes that are expressed in response to mitogens. SRF plays essential roles in muscle and nervous system development; however, little is known about the role of SRF during liver growth and function. To examine the function of SRF in the liver, we generated mice in which the Srf gene was specifically disrupted in hepatocytes. The survival of mice lacking hepatic SRF activity was lower than that of control mice; moreover, surviving mutant mice were smaller and had lower blood glucose and triglyceride levels compared with control mice. Srf-deficient livers were also smaller than control livers, hepatocyte morphology was abnormal, and liver-cell proliferation and viability was compromised. Gene array and quantitative RT-PCR analysis of SRF depleted livers revealed a reduction in mRNAs encoding components of the growth hormone/IGF1 pathway, cyclins, several metabolic regulators, and cytochrome p450 enzymes. Conclusion: SRF is essential for hepatocyte proliferation and survival, liver function, and control of postnatal body growth by regulating hepatocyte gene expression."'
GSE13333_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Serum response factor (SRF) is a transcription factor that binds to the serum response element (SRE) of genes that are expressed in response to mitogens. SRF plays essential roles in muscle and nervous system development; however, little is known about the role of SRF during liver growth and function. To examine the function of SRF in the liver, we generated mice in which the Srf gene was specifically disrupted in hepatocytes. The survival of mice lacking hepatic SRF activity was lower than that of control mice; moreover, surviving mutant mice were smaller and had lower blood glucose and triglyceride levels compared with control mice. Srf-deficient livers were also smaller than control livers, hepatocyte morphology was abnormal, and liver-cell proliferation and viability was compromised. Gene array and quantitative RT-PCR analysis of SRF depleted livers revealed a reduction in mRNAs encoding components of the growth hormone/IGF1 pathway, cyclins, several metabolic regulators, and cytochrome p450 enzymes. Conclusion: SRF is essential for hepatocyte proliferation and survival, liver function, and control of postnatal body growth by regulating hepatocyte gene expression."'
GSE13337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Altered cell lineage differentiation in fetal LGR5-null mice"'
GSE13337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The molecular mechanisms controlling stem cell renewal and lineage commitment are still poorly understood due to lack of reliable markers. In the adult small intestine, an example of high rate self-renewing tissue, four different epithelial cell lineages (enterocytes, Goblet, enteroendocrine and Paneth cells) are generated from a pool of stem cells localised at the bottom of the crypts of Lieberkühn. Recently, the orphan Leucine-rich repeat G protein-coupled receptor 5 (GPR49), a target of Wnt signalling, has been proposed as a marker for such cells. We investigated the role of LGR5 during intestinal development by using LGR5 null/LacZ-NeoR knock-in mice. We show that LGR5 deficiency leads to premature Paneth cell differentiation. X-gal staining on E18.5 intestine revealed that LGR5 expression is restricted to a few cells clustered within the intervillus region known to contain progenitor cells. In LGR5-null mice, expression from the LGR5 promoter was found upregulated, suggesting a loss of negative feedback control. However, neither epithelial cell proliferation nor cell migration appeared significantly impaired by LGR5 deficiency. Finally, transcriptional profiling of ileal mutant mice suggests that LGR5 plays a role in regulating the Wnt and Notch signalling pathways controlling progenitor renewal and differentiation."'
GSE13337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The molecular mechanisms controlling stem cell renewal and lineage commitment are still poorly understood due to lack of reliable markers. In the adult small intestine, an example of high rate self-renewing tissue, four different epithelial cell lineages (enterocytes, Goblet, enteroendocrine and Paneth cells) are generated from a pool of stem cells localised at the bottom of the crypts of Lieberkühn. Recently, the orphan Leucine-rich repeat G protein-coupled receptor 5 (GPR49), a target of Wnt signalling, has been proposed as a marker for such cells. We investigated the role of LGR5 during intestinal development by using LGR5 null/LacZ-NeoR knock-in mice. We show that LGR5 deficiency leads to premature Paneth cell differentiation. X-gal staining on E18.5 intestine revealed that LGR5 expression is restricted to a few cells clustered within the intervillus region known to contain progenitor cells. In LGR5-null mice, expression from the LGR5 promoter was found upregulated, suggesting a loss of negative feedback control. However, neither epithelial cell proliferation nor cell migration appeared significantly impaired by LGR5 deficiency. Finally, transcriptional profiling of ileal mutant mice suggests that LGR5 plays a role in regulating the Wnt and Notch signalling pathways controlling progenitor renewal and differentiation."'
GSE13337_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Microarray analysis was performed on four independent pairs of KO/WT E18.5-E19 embryos generated by three independent LGR5+/- couples. Ileum labeled RNA were hybridized to MEEBO arrays containing on average 38784 mouse 70mer oligonucleotide probes (Stanford University, US). "'
GSE13382_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"DNA miocroarrays were used to analyze lung mRNA expression of Foxa3 KO and littermate control mice challenged with saline or OVA. The experiment incorporated a 1 color design and used Agilent arrays that contained roughly 44,000 60mer probes that provide complete coverage of the mouse genome. 11 arrays were hybridized and represent 3 lung samples for groups WT saline, WT OVA and KO OVA. There are 2 lung samples for the KO saline group."'
GSE13402_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"SPARC-null vs. wild-type lens epithelium"'
GSE13402_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"SPARC is a matricellular glycoprotein involved in regulation of the extracellular matrix, growth factors, adhesion, and migration.  SPARC-null mice have altered basement membranes and develop posterior sub-capsular cataracts with cell swelling and equatorial vacuoles.  Exchange of fluid, nutrients, and waste products in the avascular lens is driven by a unique circulating ion current.  Here we demonstrate that SPARC-null mouse lenses exhibit abnormal circulation of fluid, ion, and small molecules which leads to altered fluorescein distribution in vivo, loss of resting membrane polarization, and altered distribution of small molecules.  Microarray analysis of SPARC-null lenses showed changes in gene expression of ion channels and receptors, matrix and adhesion genes, cytoskeleton, immune response genes, and cell signaling molecules.  Our results demonstrate that the regulation of SPARC on cell-capsular matrix interactions can influence the circulation of fluid and ions in the lens, and the phenotype in the SPARC-null mouse lens is the result of multiple intersecting pathways."'
GSE13402_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"SPARC is a matricellular glycoprotein involved in regulation of the extracellular matrix, growth factors, adhesion, and migration.  SPARC-null mice have altered basement membranes and develop posterior sub-capsular cataracts with cell swelling and equatorial vacuoles.  Exchange of fluid, nutrients, and waste products in the avascular lens is driven by a unique circulating ion current.  Here we demonstrate that SPARC-null mouse lenses exhibit abnormal circulation of fluid, ion, and small molecules which leads to altered fluorescein distribution in vivo, loss of resting membrane polarization, and altered distribution of small molecules.  Microarray analysis of SPARC-null lenses showed changes in gene expression of ion channels and receptors, matrix and adhesion genes, cytoskeleton, immune response genes, and cell signaling molecules.  Our results demonstrate that the regulation of SPARC on cell-capsular matrix interactions can influence the circulation of fluid and ions in the lens, and the phenotype in the SPARC-null mouse lens is the result of multiple intersecting pathways."'
GSE13402_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lens epithelial cells from 7 lenses of littermate mice were isolated by laser capture microdissection.  3 wild-type lenses from 3 different mice and 4 knock-out lenses from 3 different mice were used as biological replicates."'
GSE13408_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"The retinoblastoma cell cycle regulator pRb and the two related proteins p107 and p130 are thought to suppress cancer development both by inhibiting the G1/S transition of the cell cycle in response to growth-arrest signals and by promoting cellular differentiation. Here, we investigated the phenotype of Rb family triple knock-out (TKO) embryonic stem cells as they differentiate in vivo and in culture. Confirming the central role of the Rb gene family in cell cycle progression, TKO mouse embryos did not survive past mid-gestation and differentiating TKO cells displayed increased proliferation and cell death. However, patterning and cell fate determination were largely unaffected in these TKO embryos. Furthermore, a number of TKO cells, including in the neural lineage, were able to exit the cell cycle in G1 and terminally differentiate. This ability of Rb family TKO cells to undergo cell cycle arrest was associated with the repression of target genes for the E2F6 transcription factor, uncovering a pRb-independent control of the G1/S transition of the cell cycle. These results show that the Rb gene family is required for proper embryonic development but is not absolutely essential to induce G1 arrest and differentiation in certain lineages."'
GSE13416-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Immunological Memory is characterized by a heightened recall response to a previously encountered antigen, resulting from clonal expansion of antigen-specific lymphocytes and differentiation into specialized memory cells. Differentiation of memory B cells involves irreversible encountered antigen, resulting from clonal expansion of antigen-specific lymphocytes and differentiation into specialised memory cells. Differentiation of memory B cells involves irrversible DNA rearrangements and mutations, but differentiation of memory T cells is less understood. In an ENU screen for mouse mutations affecting the proportion of T cells with known memory cell markers, such as the alternative spliced Ptprc isoform CD45RO, we identified an inducible RNA-binding protein of previously unknown function, hnRNPLL (gene symbol Hnrpll), whose mutation abolishes the regulated silencing of CD45RABC exons in T cells and other leukocytes. In the mutant, a single amino acid substitution destabilizes an RNA-recognition domain that binds with micromolar affinity to RNA containing the Ptprc ARS exon silencing sequence. Hnrpll mutations selectively diminishes T cell accumulation in peripheral lymphoid tissues but not proliferation. Exon array analysis of Hnrpll mutant naive and memory T cells reveals an extensive program of alternative mRNA splicing in memory T cells coordinated by hnRNPLL. A remarkable overlap with alternative splicing in neural tissues may reflect a co-opted strategy of RNA rearrangement for achieving immunological memory in T cells."'
GSE13416-GPL6096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Memory; T cell; Immunological memory; Cell differentiation; Alternative splicing; T cell survival; Neuron; Brain; RNA-binding; Exon silencing sequence; Mouse mutation; Exon Microarray"'
GSE13448_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The importance of the p53 protein in the cellular response to DNA damage is well known, but its function during steady-state hematopoiesis has not been established. We have defined a critical role of p53 in regulating hematopoietic stem cell quiescence, especially in promoting the enhanced quiescence seen in HSCs that lack the MEF/ELF4 transcription factor. Transcription profiling of HSCs isolated from wild type and p53 null mice identified Gfi-1 and Necdin as p53 target genes and using lentiviral vectors to upregulate or knockdown the expression of these genes, we show their importance in regulating HSC quiescence. Establishing the role of p53 (and its target genes) in controlling the cell cycle entry of HSCs may lead to therapeutic strategies capable of eliminating quiescent cancer (stem) cells."'
GSE13448_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The importance of the p53 protein in the cellular response to DNA damage is well known, but its function during steady-state hematopoiesis has not been established. We have defined a critical role of p53 in regulating hematopoietic stem cell quiescence, especially in promoting the enhanced quiescence seen in HSCs that lack the MEF/ELF4 transcription factor. Transcription profiling of HSCs isolated from wild type and p53 null mice identified Gfi-1 and Necdin as p53 target genes and using lentiviral vectors to upregulate or knockdown the expression of these genes, we show their importance in regulating HSC quiescence. Establishing the role of p53 (and its target genes) in controlling the cell cycle entry of HSCs may lead to therapeutic strategies capable of eliminating quiescent cancer (stem) cells."'
GSE13493_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from developing thymocytes of N15TCR transgenic Rag2 deficient mice"'
GSE13493_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to identify the genes differentially expressed during CD8 single positive T cell development in N15 TCR transgenic Rag2 deficient mice."'
GSE13512_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Susceptibility to Crohn's disease, a complex inflammatory disease involving the small intestine, is controlled by over 30 loci. One Crohn's disease risk allele is in ATG16L1, a gene homologous to the essential yeast autophagy gene ATG16 (ref. 2). It is not known how ATG16L1 or autophagy contributes to intestinal biology or Crohn's disease pathogenesis. To address these questions, we generated and characterized mice that are hypomorphic for ATG16L1 protein expression, and validated conclusions on the basis of studies in these mice by analysing intestinal tissues that we collected from Crohn's disease patients carrying the Crohn's disease risk allele of ATG16L1. Here we show that ATG16L1 is a bona fide autophagy protein. Within the ileal epithelium, both ATG16L1 and a second essential autophagy protein ATG5 are selectively important for the biology of the Paneth cell, a specialized epithelial cell that functions in part by secretion of granule contents containing antimicrobial peptides and other proteins that alter the intestinal environment. ATG16L1- and ATG5-deficient Paneth cells exhibited notable abnormalities in the granule exocytosis pathway. In addition, transcriptional analysis revealed an unexpected gain of function specific to ATG16L1-deficient Paneth cells including increased expression of genes involved in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signalling and lipid metabolism, of acute phase reactants and of two adipocytokines, leptin and adiponectin, known to directly influence intestinal injury responses. Importantly, Crohn's disease patients homozygous for the ATG16L1 Crohn's disease risk allele displayed Paneth cell granule abnormalities similar to those observed in autophagy-protein-deficient mice and expressed increased levels of leptin protein. Thus, ATG16L1, and probably the process of autophagy, have a role within the intestinal epithelium of mice and Crohn's disease patients by selective effects on the cell biology and specialized regulatory properties of Paneth cells."'
GSE13522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To investigate the early host response triggered by three different strains of Trypanosoma cruzi at a local infection site, changes in host gene expression were monitored in a murine intradermal infection model using Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays. Robust induction of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) was observed in excised skin 24 hours post-infection where the level of ISG induction was parasite strain-dependent with the least virulent strain triggering a muted IFN response. Infection of mice immunodepleted of IFNγ-producing cells or infection of IFNγ-deficient mice had minimal impact on the IFN response generated in T. cruzi infected mice. In contrast, infection of mice lacking the type I IFN receptor demonstrated that type I IFNs are largely responsible for the IFN response generated at the site of infection. These data highlight type I IFNs as important components of the innate immune response to T. cruzi the site of inoculation and their role in shaping the early transcriptional response to this pathogen."'
GSE13522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"To investigate the early host response triggered by three different strains of Trypanosoma cruzi at a local infection site, changes in host gene expression were monitored in a murine intradermal infection model using Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays. Robust induction of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) was observed in excised skin 24 hours post-infection where the level of ISG induction was parasite strain-dependent with the least virulent strain triggering a muted IFN response. Infection of mice immunodepleted of IFNγ-producing cells or infection of IFNγ-deficient mice had minimal impact on the IFN response generated in T. cruzi infected mice. In contrast, infection of mice lacking the type I IFN receptor demonstrated that type I IFNs are largely responsible for the IFN response generated at the site of infection. These data highlight type I IFNs as important components of the innate immune response to T. cruzi the site of inoculation and their role in shaping the early transcriptional response to this pathogen."'
GSE13522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the local host transcriptional response to intradermal T. cruzi infection in WT mice and mice depleted of NK cells, or deficient in IFN-gamma or type I IFN responses. Additionally we compared the local host-transcriptional response generated to infection with 3 different strains of Trypanosoma cruzi (Y, Brazil, and G)."'
GSE13522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mice were infected by intradermal injection of 10^6 T. cruzi trypomastigotes in 100uL of saline split between 2 adjacent sites on the shaved side flank.  Control mice were injected with an equal volume of saline. 24 hours post-injection approximately 75mm^2 of skin immediately surrounding the injection site was excised and RNA was isolated from the tissue. Balb/c mice were used for most experiments and IFN-gamma KO mice were on the Balb/c background. WT 129 mice were also used as IFNAR-/- mice were on the 129 background. In total 33 arrays were performed. 7 WT (Balb/c) control, 3 Y strain infected, 3 Brazil strain infected, 3 G strain infected, 2 IFN-gamma KO control, 2 IFN-gamma KO infected, 1 NK cell depleted control, 1 NK cell depleted infected, 3 WT (129) control, 3 WT (129) infected, 3 IFNAR KO control, 3 IFNAR KO infected"'
GSE13526_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Transcript profiling of WT and Nxf2 KO post-natal day 21 testes"'
GSE13526_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to check the expression profiles of the Nxf2 WT and KO 21d testes on C57BL/6 background."'
GSE13526_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"To examine the expression difference between WT and Nxf2 KO testes, we collected testes from juvenile mice of three ages ( 21d, 26d, 28d). Testis weight was similar between WT and KO mice at post-natal day 21.  Three pairs of WT and KO 21d testes were chosen for microarray analysis."'
GSE13530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"two strains: wildtype and knockout, three time points: untreated, 2hours, and 8hours. three replication for each group. Totally 18 samples."'
GSE13547_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The development, homeostasis and function of B lymphocytes involve multiple rounds of B cell receptor (BCR)-controlled proliferation and prolonged maintenance. We analyzed the role of transcription factor Zfx, a recently identified regulator of stem cell maintenance, in B cell development and homeostasis. Conditional Zfx deletion in the bone marrow blocked B cell development at the pre-BCR selection checkpoint. Zfx deficiency in peripheral B cells caused impaired generation of the B-1 cell lineage, accelerated B cell turnover, depletion of mature recirculating cells, and delayed T-dependent antibody responses. Zfx-deficient B cells showed normal proximal BCR signaling, but impaired BCR-induced proliferation and survival. This was accompanied by aberrantly enhanced and prolonged integrated stress response, and delayed induction of Cyclin D2 and Bcl-xL proteins. Thus, Zfx restrains the stress response and couples antigen receptor signaling to B cell expansion and maintenance during development and peripheral homeostasis."'
GSE13547_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The development, homeostasis and function of B lymphocytes involve multiple rounds of B cell receptor (BCR)-controlled proliferation and prolonged maintenance. We analyzed the role of transcription factor Zfx, a recently identified regulator of stem cell maintenance, in B cell development and homeostasis. Conditional Zfx deletion in the bone marrow blocked B cell development at the pre-BCR selection checkpoint. Zfx deficiency in peripheral B cells caused impaired generation of the B-1 cell lineage, accelerated B cell turnover, depletion of mature recirculating cells, and delayed T-dependent antibody responses. Zfx-deficient B cells showed normal proximal BCR signaling, but impaired BCR-induced proliferation and survival. This was accompanied by aberrantly enhanced and prolonged integrated stress response, and delayed induction of Cyclin D2 and Bcl-xL proteins. Thus, Zfx restrains the stress response and couples antigen receptor signaling to B cell expansion and maintenance during development and peripheral homeostasis."'
GSE13549_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Tumor associated fibroblasts (TAF) from different tumors exhibit distinct angiogenic and tumorigenic properties. Unlike normal skin fibroblasts (NSF) or TAF (TAF-TIB6) from TIB6 tumors that are sensitive to anti-VEGF treatment, TAF (TAF-EL4) from resistant EL4 tumors can stimulate TIB6 tumor growth even when VEGF is inhibited.  We show that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-C is upregulated in TAFs from resistant tumors. PDGF-C neutralizing antibodies blocked the angiogenesis induced by such TAF in vivo and slowed the growth of EL4 and admixture (TAF-EL4 + TIB6) tumors and exhibited additive effects with anti-VEGF-A antibodies. Hence, our data reveal a novel mechanism for TAF mediated tumorigenesis and suggest that some tumors may overcome inhibition of VEGF-mediated angiogenesis through upregulation of PDGF-C"'
GSE13552_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression changes in Jhdm2a knock-out skeletal muscle as compared to wild-type."'
GSE13552_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression changes in mouse skeletal muscle were assessed in wild-type and Jhdm2a null skeletal muscle in an effort to define the role of Jhdm2a in energy expenditure and metabolism."'
GSE13552_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA prepared from the skeletal muscle of 3 wild-type mice was combined, amplified, labeled, and hybridized to an Affymetrix 430 2 microarray.  RNA was similarly prepared from the skeletal muscle of 3 Jhdm2a null mice and hybridized to an Affymetrix 430 2 microarray."'
GSE13553_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA), a class of fatty acids found in beef and dairy products, has been shown to inhibit tumorigenesis in a variety of cancer model systems. Based on previously well-documented anti-tumor activity of CLA in rodent models of breast cancer, a pilot study was initiated to examine the effect of dietary CLA in a well-established transgenic model of breast cancer.  Western blots were performed for the detection of AKT, c-Src, ERK1/2, and Cdc24. CLA significantly increased tumor burden (p<0.1) independent of an increase in oncogenic signaling. Mammary gland whole mounts indicated a loss of mammary adipose and extensive epithelial expansion in CLA-treated animals. Microarray analysis indicated a significant reduction in cytoskeletal related genes with at least a two-fold decrease in five out of six CLA-fed animals compared to untreated controls. Reduction of Cdc42, a key regulator of cell adhesion and cytoskeletal arrangements, was confirmed at the protein level by western blot (p<0.01). These findings suggest that dietary CLA may advance the malignant phenotype by promoting a loss of cell polarity and adhesion in the mammary gland epithelium. This action may have serious clinical implications for a subset high-risk population and warrants further investigation."'
GSE13582_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from BAT of the KRAP deficient mice"'
GSE13582_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"KRAP (Ki-ras-induced actin-interacting protein) is a cytoskeleton-associated protein and a ubiquitous protein among tissues, originally identified as a cancer-related molecule.  KRAP-deficient (KRAP-/-) mice show enhanced metabolic rate, decreased adiposity, improved glucose tolerance, hypoinsulinemia and hypoleptinemia.  KRAP-/- mice are also protected against high-fat diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance despite of hyperphagia."'
GSE13583_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from liver of the KRAP deficient mice "'
GSE13583_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"KRAP (Ki-ras-induced actin-interacting protein) is a cytoskeleton-associated protein and a ubiquitous protein among tissues, originally identified as a cancer-related molecule.  KRAP-deficient (KRAP-/-) mice show enhanced metabolic rate, decreased adiposity, improved glucose tolerance, hypoinsulinemia and hypoleptinemia.  KRAP-/- mice are also protected against high-fat diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance despite of hyperphagia. "'
GSE13585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from BAT and liver of the KRAP deficient mice"'
GSE13585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"KRAP (Ki-ras-induced actin-interacting protein) is a cytoskeleton-associated protein and a ubiquitous protein among tissues, originally identified as a cancer-related molecule.  KRAP-deficient (KRAP-/-) mice show enhanced metabolic rate, decreased adiposity, improved glucose tolerance, hypoinsulinemia and hypoleptinemia.  KRAP-/- mice are also protected against high-fat diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance despite of hyperphagia."'
GSE13588_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in striatums of Foxp2-hum, Foxp2-ko and wild-type mice"'
GSE13588_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"We determined genome-wide gene expression patterns in striatal biopsies from Foxp2hum/hum, Foxp2wt/ko and Foxp2wt/wt mice using high-density oligonucleotide arrays. The animals were derived from two independent FoxP2 knock-in strains and one knock-out strain. In total 71 animals were used, 29 males and 42 females. The mice ages were E16.5, P15, P18,  P21 and P95 when sacrificed. The microarrays were processed in totally six batches."'
GSE13588_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"We determined genome-wide gene expression patterns in striatal biopsies from Foxp2hum/hum, Foxp2wt/ko and Foxp2wt/wt mice using high-density oligonucleotide arrays. The animals were derived from two independent FoxP2 knock-in strains and one knock-out strain. In total 71 animals were used, 29 males and 42 females. The mice ages were E16.5, P15, P18,  P21 and P95 when sacrificed. The microarrays were processed in totally six batches."'
GSE13590_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Experimental identification of microRNA-140 targets by silencing and overexpressing miR-140"'
GSE13590_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNA molecules regulating the expression of mRNAs. Target identification of miRNAs is computationally difficult due to the relatively low homology between miRNAs and their targets. We present here an experimental approach to target identification where the cartilage-specific miR-140 was overexpressed and silenced in cells it is normally expressed in separate experiments. Expression of mRNAs was profiled in both experiments and the intersection of mRNAs repressed by miR-140 overexpression and derepressed by silencing of miR-140 was identified. The intersection contained only 49 genes, although both treatments affected the accumulation of hundreds of mRNAs. These 49 genes showed a very strong enrichment for the miR-140 seed sequence implying that the approach is efficient and specific. 21 of these 49 genes were predicted to be direct targets based on the presence of the seed sequence. Interestingly, none of these were predicted by the published target prediction methods we used. One of the potential target mRNAs, Cxcl12, was experimentally validated by Northern blot analysis and a luciferase reporter assay."'
GSE13592_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for priming of immune responses. Although immune mechanisms are known to control the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, the role of DCs remains elusive. Here we show that Ccl17 expressing mature, myeloid DCs accumulate within atherosclerotic lesions. Deletion of Ccl17 in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice reduces the development and progression of atherosclerosis in several disease models. While Ccl17 expression by DCs dampened antigen-specific T cell proliferation, it is required for efficient polarization of T helper type 1 (Th1) and Th17 as reflected by a preponderance of Th2 cytokines in Ccl17-/- Apoe-/- mice. In line with these findings, only transfer of T cells from Apoe-/-, but not from Ccl17-/- Apoe-/- precipitated atherosclerosis in T cell depleted Apoe-/- recipients. These findings identify Ccl17+ DCs as central immune regulators in atherosclerosis and Ccl17 as a potential target in the treatment of this disease."'
GSE13599_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"NFkB dependent gene expression in a Mdr2-KO hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) mouse model using a IkB-Superrepressor"'
GSE13599_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"This study aims on the identification of the NF-kB dependent gene regulatory network during inflammation-associated liver carcinogenesis using the well-established Mdr2 knockout mouse model. We could identify 367 differentially expressed genes comparing expression profiles of tumor samples from Mdr2-KO mice to tumor samples derived from mice with an additional hepatocyte specific expression of an IkB-superrepressor. This IkB-superrepresser is undegradable upon ubiquitinylation initialized by Ikk dependent phosphorylation and therefore impedes NFkB activity."'
GSE13599_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"This study aims on the identification of the NF-kB dependent gene regulatory network during inflammation-associated liver carcinogenesis using the well-established Mdr2 knockout mouse model. We could identify 367 differentially expressed genes comparing expression profiles of tumor samples from Mdr2-KO mice to tumor samples derived from mice with an additional hepatocyte specific expression of an IkB-superrepressor. This IkB-superrepresser is undegradable upon ubiquitinylation initialized by Ikk dependent phosphorylation and therefore impedes NFkB activity."'
GSE13599_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: NFkB, IkB-superrepressor, inflammation-associated liver carcinogenesis, Mdr2-KO mouse model, hepatocellular carcinoma, gene expression, microarray"'
GSE13599_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"In the experiments shown here, we compare gene expression profiles of HCCs from 4 idividual mice harboring a biallelic Mdr2 knockout to HCC specimen of 6 individual mice with Mdr2 knockout and a hepatocyte specific expression of the IkB-superrepressor. Each individual sample was hybridized aginst a universal reference mouse pool (Stratagene) on a two-color microarray. Furthermore was each sample/reference hybridization conducted as a dye swap experiment yielding two technical replicates with inverted dye channel orientation per sample. In addition a biological control using wildtype liver tissue from mice of the same genetic background was hybridized the same way aginst a universal reference. The latter was used to build a sample/control ratio for displays of indirect comparison."'
GSE13632-GPL7442_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Cyclin D1 belongs to the core cell cycle machinery1, and it is frequently overexpressed in human cancers2.  The full repertoire of cyclin D1 functions in normal development and in cancer cells is currently unknown. To address this question, here we introduce a novel approach that allows one to determine the set of cyclin D1-interacting proteins  (D1 “interactome”) and cyclin D1-bound genomic fragments (D1 “cistrome”) in essentially any mouse organ, at any point of development or at any stage of cancer progression.   Using this approach, we detected several novel tissue-specific interactors of cyclin D1.  A significant number of these partners represent proteins involved in transcription.  We show, using genome-wide location analysis3, that cyclin D1 occupies promoters of a very large number of genes in the developing mouse, where it binds in close proximity to transcription start sites.  Bioinformatics analyses of cyclin D1-bound genomic segments in the developing embryo revealed DNA recognition sequences for several transcription factors.  By querying SAGE libraries4, promoter CpG content5 and gene expression profiles of cyclin D1-null organs, we demonstrate that cyclin D1 binds promoters of highly expressed genes, and that it functions to activate or to repress gene expression in vivo.  Analyses of cyclin D1 transcriptional targets reveal that cyclin D1 contributes to cell proliferation by upregulating genes required for S-phase entry and progression.  Hence, cyclin D1 plays a broad transcriptional regulatory function in vivo during normal mouse development."'
GSE13632-GPL7443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Cyclin D1 belongs to the core cell cycle machinery1, and it is frequently overexpressed in human cancers2.  The full repertoire of cyclin D1 functions in normal development and in cancer cells is currently unknown. To address this question, here we introduce a novel approach that allows one to determine the set of cyclin D1-interacting proteins  (D1 “interactome”) and cyclin D1-bound genomic fragments (D1 “cistrome”) in essentially any mouse organ, at any point of development or at any stage of cancer progression.   Using this approach, we detected several novel tissue-specific interactors of cyclin D1.  A significant number of these partners represent proteins involved in transcription.  We show, using genome-wide location analysis3, that cyclin D1 occupies promoters of a very large number of genes in the developing mouse, where it binds in close proximity to transcription start sites.  Bioinformatics analyses of cyclin D1-bound genomic segments in the developing embryo revealed DNA recognition sequences for several transcription factors.  By querying SAGE libraries4, promoter CpG content5 and gene expression profiles of cyclin D1-null organs, we demonstrate that cyclin D1 binds promoters of highly expressed genes, and that it functions to activate or to repress gene expression in vivo.  Analyses of cyclin D1 transcriptional targets reveal that cyclin D1 contributes to cell proliferation by upregulating genes required for S-phase entry and progression.  Hence, cyclin D1 plays a broad transcriptional regulatory function in vivo during normal mouse development."'
GSE13635_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Cyclin D1 belongs to the core cell cycle machinery1, and it is frequently overexpressed in human cancers2.  The full repertoire of cyclin D1 functions in normal development and in cancer cells is currently unknown. To address this question, here we introduce a novel approach that allows one to determine the set of cyclin D1-interacting proteins  (D1 “interactome”) and cyclin D1-bound genomic fragments (D1 “cistrome”) in essentially any mouse organ, at any point of development or at any stage of cancer progression.   Using this approach, we detected several novel tissue-specific interactors of cyclin D1.  A significant number of these partners represent proteins involved in transcription.  We show, using genome-wide location analysis3, that cyclin D1 occupies promoters of a very large number of genes in the developing mouse, where it binds in close proximity to transcription start sites.  Bioinformatics analyses of cyclin D1-bound genomic segments in the developing embryo revealed DNA recognition sequences for several transcription factors.  By querying SAGE libraries4, promoter CpG content5 and gene expression profiles of cyclin D1-null organs, we demonstrate that cyclin D1 binds promoters of highly expressed genes, and that it functions to activate or to repress gene expression in vivo.  Analyses of cyclin D1 transcriptional targets reveal that cyclin D1 contributes to cell proliferation by upregulating genes required for S-phase entry and progression.  Hence, cyclin D1 plays a broad transcriptional regulatory function in vivo during normal mouse development."'
GSE13636-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We examined the transcriptional function of cyclin D1 in mouse development using two approaches. First, we queried association of cyclin D1 with the genome of E14.5 mouse embryos using ChIP-on-chip approach.  We observed binding of cyclin D1 to several promoter regions.  Second, we compared gene expression profiles between wild-type and cyclin D1-null retinas. We observed several transcripts with altered levels in cyclin D1-null organs."'
GSE13636-GPL7442_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We examined the transcriptional function of cyclin D1 in mouse development using two approaches. First, we queried association of cyclin D1 with the genome of E14.5 mouse embryos using ChIP-on-chip approach.  We observed binding of cyclin D1 to several promoter regions.  Second, we compared gene expression profiles between wild-type and cyclin D1-null retinas. We observed several transcripts with altered levels in cyclin D1-null organs."'
GSE13636-GPL7443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We examined the transcriptional function of cyclin D1 in mouse development using two approaches. First, we queried association of cyclin D1 with the genome of E14.5 mouse embryos using ChIP-on-chip approach.  We observed binding of cyclin D1 to several promoter regions.  Second, we compared gene expression profiles between wild-type and cyclin D1-null retinas. We observed several transcripts with altered levels in cyclin D1-null organs."'
GSE13642_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for priming of immune responses. Although immune mechanisms are known to control the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, the role of DCs remains elusive. Here we show that Ccl17 expressing mature, myeloid DCs accumulate within atherosclerotic lesions. Deletion of Ccl17 in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice reduces the development and progression of atherosclerosis in several disease models. While Ccl17 expression by DCs dampened antigen-specific T cell proliferation, it is required for efficient polarization of T helper type 1 (Th1) and Th17 as reflected by a preponderance of Th2 cytokines in Ccl17-/- Apoe-/- mice. In line with these findings, only transfer of T cells from Apoe-/-, but not from Ccl17-/- Apoe-/- precipitated atherosclerosis in T cell depleted Apoe-/- recipients. These findings identify Ccl17+ DCs as central immune regulators in atherosclerosis and Ccl17 as a potential target in the treatment of this disease."'
GSE13645_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional profiling of p56lck-deficient regulatory and memory T cells"'
GSE13645_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Signaling through the T cell antigen receptor is essential for the formation of regulatory T (Treg) cells in the thymus and for their involvement in antigen-directed suppression of immune responses.  Using a conditional null allele of the gene encoding p56Lck we show here that T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling is also essential for sustaining the phenotype and homeostasis of Treg cells.  Inactivation of p56Lck in Treg cells resulted in large-scale changes in their gene expression profile, blocked their capacity to suppress responses, inhibited their proliferation, and caused them to redistribute in the body.  The results make clear multiple aspects of the Treg cell phenotype that are dependent on a sustained capacity to respond through their TCRs."'
GSE13645_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two-condition experiment:  wild-type memory or regulatory T cells versus lck-deficient memory or regulatory T cells."'
GSE13665_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Pituitaries of basal and stressed Crhr1 wild type and knockout mice"'
GSE13665_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Pituitaries of basal and stressed Crhr1-wildtype (wt) and -knockout (ko) mice (Timpl et al., 1998)"'
GSE13665_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_summary	"Pituitaries of basal and stressed Crhr1-wildtype (wt) and -knockout (ko) mice (Timpl et al., 1998)"'
GSE13665_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_summary	"As the Crh-system and the HPA-axis are known to be crucially invovled in the onset, development and maintainance of psychiatric disorders like anxiety and depression and regulate the behavioural and endocrine stress responses the further analysis of Crhr1-dependent signaling cascades is essential to understand the molecular mechanisms behind these psychiatric diseases. In this project, new candidate genes involved in Crhr1-dependent signaling cascades were dissected using metyrapone treated stressed Crhr1-wt and -ko (Timpl et al., 1998) mice using 30 min restraint stress. Changes in mRNA expression of pituitaries of basal and stressed Crhr1-wt and -ko mice were analysed 1 and 3h, respectively, after stress begin on the Sentrix Mouse-6 Expression BeadChip."'
GSE13665_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"To activate the CRHR1-dependent signaling in the pituitary of CRHR1-wt and -ko mice animals were stressed using 30 min restraint stress in 50 ml Falcon tubes. 12 h before stress mice were injected intraperitonally (i.p.) with 150 mg/kg bodyweight (b.w.) metyrapone. Metyrapone is an inhibitor of the steroid beta-hydroxylase, an enzyme catalyzing the biosynthesis of corticosterone. By this way, the negative feedback of corticosterone on the HPA-axis was blocked. A second metyrapone injection (100 mg/kg b.w.) was applied directly before stress. 1 and 3h, respectively, after stress, mice were anesthetized, decapitated and the pituitaries prepared and flash-frozen. mRNA was isolated according to the TRIzol protocol (Invitrogen). Pooled amplified RNA samples were then hybridised on Illumina mouse BeadChips (N=2 per group) and detected in the Illumina BeadArray Reader (Illumina, Inc., San Diego, CA). The experiment was performed in technical duplicates."'
GSE13686_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profiles of multipotent progenitor cells (MPPs) from Mef2c deficient (Mx1-Cre Mef2cf/f  ) mice where compared to MPPs from control (Mef2cf/f  ) mice in triplicate."'
GSE13691-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Long-term proteasomal inhibition in transgenic mice  by UBB+1 expression results in  dysfunction of central respiration control reminiscent of  brainstem neuropathology in Alzheimer patients"'
GSE13691-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Aging and neurodegeneration are often accompanied by a functionally impaired ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). In tauopathies and polyglutamine diseases a mutant form of Ubiquitin B, UBB+1, accumulates in disease-specific aggregates. UBB+1 mRNA is generated at low levels in vivo during transcription from the Ubiquitin B locus by molecular misreading. The resulting mutant protein has been shown to inhibit proteasome function. To elucidate causative effects and neuropathological consequences of UBB+1 accumulation, we used a UBB+1 expressing transgenic mouse line, that models UPS inhibition in neurons and exhibits behavioral phenotypes reminiscent of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). In order to reveal affected organs and functions, young and aged UBB+1 transgenic mice were comprehensively phenotyped for more than 240 parameters. This revealed unexpected changes in spontaneous breathing patterns and an altered response to hypoxic conditions. Our findings point to a central dysfunction of respiratory regulation in transgenic mice in comparison to wildtype littermate mice. Accordingly, UBB+1 was strongly expressed in brainstem regions of transgenic mice controlling respiration. These regions included, for example, the medial part of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius and the lateral subdivisions of the parabrachial nuclei. In addition, UBB+1 was also strongly expressed in these anatomical structures of AD patients (Braak stage #6) and was not expressed in non-demented controls. We conclude that long-term UPS inhibition due to UBB+1 expression causes central breathing dysfunction in a transgenic mouse model of AD. The UBB+1 expression pattern in humans is consistent with the contribution of bronchopneumonia as a cause of death in AD patients."'
GSE13691-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Long-term proteasomal inhibition in transgenic mice  by UBB+1 expression results in  dysfunction of central respiration control reminiscent of  brainstem neuropathology in Alzheimer patients"'
GSE13691-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Aging and neurodegeneration are often accompanied by a functionally impaired ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). In tauopathies and polyglutamine diseases a mutant form of Ubiquitin B, UBB+1, accumulates in disease-specific aggregates. UBB+1 mRNA is generated at low levels in vivo during transcription from the Ubiquitin B locus by molecular misreading. The resulting mutant protein has been shown to inhibit proteasome function. To elucidate causative effects and neuropathological consequences of UBB+1 accumulation, we used a UBB+1 expressing transgenic mouse line, that models UPS inhibition in neurons and exhibits behavioral phenotypes reminiscent of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). In order to reveal affected organs and functions, young and aged UBB+1 transgenic mice were comprehensively phenotyped for more than 240 parameters. This revealed unexpected changes in spontaneous breathing patterns and an altered response to hypoxic conditions. Our findings point to a central dysfunction of respiratory regulation in transgenic mice in comparison to wildtype littermate mice. Accordingly, UBB+1 was strongly expressed in brainstem regions of transgenic mice controlling respiration. These regions included, for example, the medial part of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius and the lateral subdivisions of the parabrachial nuclei. In addition, UBB+1 was also strongly expressed in these anatomical structures of AD patients (Braak stage #6) and was not expressed in non-demented controls. We conclude that long-term UPS inhibition due to UBB+1 expression causes central breathing dysfunction in a transgenic mouse model of AD. The UBB+1 expression pattern in humans is consistent with the contribution of bronchopneumonia as a cause of death in AD patients."'
GSE13707_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"More than 2,000 genes appear to be upregulated or downregulated in skeletal muscle of mice with constitutive knockout of myostatin (Steelman et al., FASEB J 20:580-2, 2006). This study was done to determine whether inhibition of myostatin activity in mature mice has similar effects on the pattern of gene expression."'
GSE13707_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"More than 2,000 genes appear to be upregulated or downregulated in skeletal muscle of mice with constitutive knockout of myostatin (Steelman et al., FASEB J 20:580-2, 2006). This study was done to determine whether inhibition of myostatin activity in mature mice has similar effects on the pattern of gene expression."'
GSE13718_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The ErbB3 binding protein-1 (Ebp1) belongs to a family of DNA/RNA binding proteins implicated in cell growth, apoptosis and differentiation. However, the physiological role of Ebp1 in the whole organism is not known. Therefore, we generated Ebp1-deficient mice carrying a gene trap insertion in intron 2 of  the Ebp1 (pa2g4) gene."'
GSE13718_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Results: Ebp1 -/- mice were on average 30% smaller than wild type and heterozygous sex matched littermates. Growth retardation was apparent from Day 10 until Day 30. IGF-1 production and IGBP-3 and 4 protein levels were reduced in  both embryo fibroblasts and adult knock-out mice. The proliferation of fibroblasts derived from Day 12.5  knock out embryos was also decreased as compared to that of wild type cells. Microarray expression analysis revealed changes in genes important in cell growth including members of the MAPK signal transduction pathway. In addition, the expression or activation of proliferation related genes such as AKT and the androgen receptor, previously demonstrated to be affected by Ebp1 expression in vitro,  were altered in adult tissues."'
GSE13753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"In one experiment, embryonic Day 13.5 placentas from wild-type and Rb -/- knock-out mice were compared. In the second experiment, embronic day 11.5 placentas from wild-type and Rb -/-;E2f4 -/- double knock-out mice were compared."'
GSE13805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from wild type and calreticulin deficient murine embryonic stem cells"'
GSE13805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Primordial genomic challenge compromises embryonic development and survival, and surveillance of deployed transcriptional programs may provide an early opportunity to forecast phenotype abnormalities. Here, comparisons between wild-type and calreticulin-ablated embryonic stem cells revealed transcriptome shifts precipitated by calreticulin loss. Bioinformatic analysis identified down and up-regulation in 1187 and 418 genes, respectively. Cardiovascular development precedes other organogenic programs, and examination of cardiogenic genes revealed a map of calreticulin-calibrated expression profiles that encompass the developmental regulators, Ccnd1, Ccnd2 and Notch1. Interrogation of primary function in the resolved network forecasted abnormalities during myocardial development. Whole embryo magnetic resonance imaging, verified by pathoanatomical analysis, diagnosed prominent ventricular septal defect. Correlation clustering and network resolution of probesets associated with protein folding/chaperoning and calcium handling demonstrated 14 and 19 genes, respectively, modulated by calreticulin deficiency. Calreticulin deletion provoked ontological re-prioritization of gene expression, molecular transport and protein trafficking that translated into multiple subcellular functional outcomes. Individual stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes lacking calreticulin demonstrated a disorganized contractile apparatus with mitochondrial paucity and architectural aberrations. Thus, bioinformatic deconvolution of primordial embryonic stem cell transcriptomes enables predictive phenotyping of defective developmental networks that coalesce from complex systems biology hierarchies."'
GSE13805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Primordial genomic challenge compromises embryonic development and survival, and surveillance of deployed transcriptional programs may provide an early opportunity to forecast phenotype abnormalities. Here, comparisons between wild-type and calreticulin-ablated embryonic stem cells revealed transcriptome shifts precipitated by calreticulin loss. Bioinformatic analysis identified down and up-regulation in 1187 and 418 genes, respectively. Cardiovascular development precedes other organogenic programs, and examination of cardiogenic genes revealed a map of calreticulin-calibrated expression profiles that encompass the developmental regulators, Ccnd1, Ccnd2 and Notch1. Interrogation of primary function in the resolved network forecasted abnormalities during myocardial development. Whole embryo magnetic resonance imaging, verified by pathoanatomical analysis, diagnosed prominent ventricular septal defect. Correlation clustering and network resolution of probesets associated with protein folding/chaperoning and calcium handling demonstrated 14 and 19 genes, respectively, modulated by calreticulin deficiency. Calreticulin deletion provoked ontological re-prioritization of gene expression, molecular transport and protein trafficking that translated into multiple subcellular functional outcomes. Individual stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes lacking calreticulin demonstrated a disorganized contractile apparatus with mitochondrial paucity and architectural aberrations. Thus, bioinformatic deconvolution of primordial embryonic stem cell transcriptomes enables predictive phenotyping of defective developmental networks that coalesce from complex systems biology hierarchies."'
GSE13805_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Stem cells cultured in triplicate (or more) were pooled to provide raw material per sample. Each sample represents  material collected from three technical replicates or more. In this manner, two wild type samples, and five derived from calreticulin knockout samples, were obtained. Although sample content contains material from three or more technical replicates harvested contemporaneously, each sample is a distinct biological replicate.  Total RNA was extracted from each of the samples and RNA pools were profiled on Affymetrix Mouse 430 2.0 Arrays to identify global gene expression changes invoked by genomic ablation of calreticulin."'
GSE13807_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Wild type and Dicer null embryonic mouse limbs were analaysed using Affymetrix arrays to identify gene expression changes. Genes that were up-regulated in Dicer-null limbs were canidates for being miRNA targets."'
GSE13819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Using Affymetrix data analysis, important signalling pathways and transcription factors relevant to gut inflammation and anti-inflammatory action of probiotics were identified using the clinically validated probiotic VSL#3 and the IL10-knockout mouse, an animal model for inflammatory bowel disease. VSL#3 increased expression of genes involved in PPAR signalling and metabolism of xenobiotics and decreased expression of genes involved in immune response/inflammatory response."'
GSE13819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"IL10-knockout (IL10-KO) and wildtype (WT) mice housed under specific pathogen-free (SPF) conditions were sacrificed at 24 weeks by cervical dislocation."'
GSE13819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"IL10-knockout (IL10-KO) and wildtype (WT) mice housed under specific pathogen-free (SPF) conditions were sacrificed at 24 weeks by cervical dislocation."'
GSE13819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Microarray experiment1 compares gene expression of IL10-KO and WT colon tissue. For microarray analysis RNA was extracted from the colon tissue of each mouse (WT n=7, IL10-KO n=6)."'
GSE13819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Microarray experiment2 compares gene expression of WT and IL10-KO mice fed with either placebo or probiotic VSL#3. IL10-KO and WT mice were fed with placebo or 1.3x109 cfu of lyophilized VSL#3 bacteria post weaning for 21 weeks. For microarray analysis RNA was extracted from the caecum tissue of each mouse (WT Placebo n=6, IL10-KO Placebo n=6, IL10-KO VSL#3 n=6)."'
GSE13835_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"This study compared gene expression in smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in atherosclerosis-prone and atherosclerosis-resistant regions of the aorta of C57Bl/6 mice. In a parallel experiment, both regions were compared in young, plaque-free apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice. Aortas of 3 male and 3 female C57Bl6 mice were isolated, perfused with triton X-100 to remove endothelial cells and divided in an atherosclerosis-prone region (AA: ascending aorta, aortic arch and proximal 2 mm of thoracic aorta) and an atherosclerosis-resistant region (TA: central thoracic aorta,i.e. 6 mm distal from the proximal 2mm of the thoracic aorta). Microarray analysis (VIB-MAF) of pooled total RNA showed differential expression (>2-fold difference) for 70 genes. Up- or downregulation in the AA was observed for 33 and 37 genes respectively. Differential expression of 3 genes (ATPase, Na+/K+ transporting, beta 1 polypeptide, sarcolipin and homeo box B7) was confirmed using real-time PCR. Twenty five genes showed exclusively differential expression in C57BL6 mice. Only 7 could be linked to specific processes: development (4) and cell growth (3). The other 18 genes were all involved in different processes. Among the 45 genes showing differential expression in C57Bl/6 as well as apoE-/- mice, most were related to development (13), cell growth (8) and transcription (10). These results point to an altered transcriptome in SMCs of the C57Bl/6 aorta at an atherosclerosis-prone location. This is in agreement with findings in endothelial cells in atherosclerosis-prone regions. It could be due to biomechanical differences, for instance in wall tension or shear stress, or the different embryological origin of SMCs in AA and TA."'
GSE13836_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"This study compared gene expression in smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in atherosclerosis-prone and atherosclerosis-resistant aorta segments in 4 months old apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice before plaque development. In a parallel experiment, both regions were compared in young C57Bl/6 mice. Aortas of 3 male and 3 female ApoE-/- mice were isolated, perfused with triton X-100 to remove endothelial cells and divided in an atherosclerosis-prone region (AA: ascending aorta, aortic arch and proximal 2 mm of thoracic aorta) and a resistant region (TA: central thoracic aorta, i.e. 6 mm distal from the proximal 2 mm). Microarray analysis (VIB-MAF) of pooled total RNA showed differential expression (>2-fold difference) for 244 genes. Up- or downregulation in the AA was observed for 186 and 58 genes respectively. Differential expression of 6 genes was confirmed using real-time PCR. The 201 genes that showed exclusively differential expression in apoE-/- mice were related to processes involved in atherosclerosis, such as cell adhesion, proliferation, differentiation, motility and death, lipid metabolism and immune responses. Furthermore, the transcription profile of the AA was in accordance with a more synthetic SMC phenotype. These results point to an altered transcriptome in SMCs in the aorta of apoE-/- mice at the atherosclerosis-prone location before actual lesion development. This suggests that SMCs, in addition to endothelial cells, can facilitate plaque formation at predilection sites."'
GSE13855-GPL7726_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor double KO and systemic lupus erythematosis"'
GSE13855-GPL7726_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_title	"p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor double KO and systemic lupus erythematosis"'
GSE13855-GPL7726_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"TNFa has both pro-inflammatory and immunoregulatory functions. Whereas a protective role for TNF administration in SLE-prone (NZB x NZW)F1 mice has been established, it remains uncertain whether this effect segregates at the individual TNF receptors (TNFR). We generated SLE-prone New Zealand Mixed 2328 mice genetically deficient in TNF receptor 1, in TNF receptor 2, or in both receptors. Doubly-deficient mice developed accelerated pathological and clinical nephritis with elevated levels of circulating IgG anti-dsDNA autoantibodies and increased numbers of CD4+ T lymphocytes, especially activated memory (CD44highCD62Llow) CD4+ T cells. We show that these cells expressed a Th17 gene profile, were positive for IL-17 intracellular staining by FACS, and produced exogenous IL-17 in culture. In contrast, immunological, pathological, and clinical profiles of mice deficient in either TNF receptor alone did not differ from those in each other or from those in wild-type controls. Thus, total ablation of TNFa-mediated signaling was highly deleterious to the host in the NZM 2328 SLE model. These observations may have profound ramifications for the use of TNF- and TNF receptor-antagonists in human SLE and related autoimmune disorders, as well as demonstrate, for the first time, the association of the Th17 pathway with an animal model of SLE."'
GSE13855-GPL7726_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"CD4+CD44highCD62Llow/neg  spleen cells were isolated from 5-month-old female p55/p75 double knockout (DKO) NZM 2328 mice or C57BL/6 mice by depleting CD19+ B cells with magnetic beads (Dynal Biotech) followed by flow cytometry sorting .  Total RNA was extracted from each sorted cell preparation using RNA STAT-60 isolation reagents (Tel-Test Inc. Friendswood, TX). First strand cDNAs were prepared from 250-500 ng total RNA of each sample using First Strand cDNA Kit (Fermentas Inc. Hanover, MD). Template cDNAs were characterized in technical quadruplicates using two different RT2 Profiler PCR Arrays: the mouse Th1-Th2-Th3 array and the Th-17 pathway PCR Array for Autoimmunity & Inflammation (SuperArray Bioscience, Fredrick, MD)."'
GSE13855-GPL7747_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor double KO and systemic lupus erythematosis"'
GSE13855-GPL7747_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'double KO' in '!Series_title	"p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor double KO and systemic lupus erythematosis"'
GSE13855-GPL7747_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"TNFa has both pro-inflammatory and immunoregulatory functions. Whereas a protective role for TNF administration in SLE-prone (NZB x NZW)F1 mice has been established, it remains uncertain whether this effect segregates at the individual TNF receptors (TNFR). We generated SLE-prone New Zealand Mixed 2328 mice genetically deficient in TNF receptor 1, in TNF receptor 2, or in both receptors. Doubly-deficient mice developed accelerated pathological and clinical nephritis with elevated levels of circulating IgG anti-dsDNA autoantibodies and increased numbers of CD4+ T lymphocytes, especially activated memory (CD44highCD62Llow) CD4+ T cells. We show that these cells expressed a Th17 gene profile, were positive for IL-17 intracellular staining by FACS, and produced exogenous IL-17 in culture. In contrast, immunological, pathological, and clinical profiles of mice deficient in either TNF receptor alone did not differ from those in each other or from those in wild-type controls. Thus, total ablation of TNFa-mediated signaling was highly deleterious to the host in the NZM 2328 SLE model. These observations may have profound ramifications for the use of TNF- and TNF receptor-antagonists in human SLE and related autoimmune disorders, as well as demonstrate, for the first time, the association of the Th17 pathway with an animal model of SLE."'
GSE13855-GPL7747_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"CD4+CD44highCD62Llow/neg  spleen cells were isolated from 5-month-old female p55/p75 double knockout (DKO) NZM 2328 mice or C57BL/6 mice by depleting CD19+ B cells with magnetic beads (Dynal Biotech) followed by flow cytometry sorting .  Total RNA was extracted from each sorted cell preparation using RNA STAT-60 isolation reagents (Tel-Test Inc. Friendswood, TX). First strand cDNAs were prepared from 250-500 ng total RNA of each sample using First Strand cDNA Kit (Fermentas Inc. Hanover, MD). Template cDNAs were characterized in technical quadruplicates using two different RT2 Profiler PCR Arrays: the mouse Th1-Th2-Th3 array and the Th-17 pathway PCR Array for Autoimmunity & Inflammation (SuperArray Bioscience, Fredrick, MD)."'
GSE13859_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Global survey of miRNA microarray of whole embryo, wild type vs estrogen receptor alpha knockout mice"'
GSE13859_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"To examine the effect of estrogen receptor alpha for the miRNA expression, total RNA extracted from whole embryos at E18.5 of wild type and Estrogen Receptor alpha knock-out mice"'
GSE13859_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two group experiment (wild type and ER alpha KO) "'
GSE13864_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Effect of conditional deletion of S6 ribosomal protein following partial hepatectomy"'
GSE13864_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Deletion of the RPS6 gene in mouse liver results in the inhibition of 40S ribosome biogenesis and the failure of hepatocytes to enter S-phase following partial hepatectomy. This microarray experiment was designed to assess the effects of RPS6 deletion on the expression of genes involved in liver regeneration following partial hepatectomy."'
GSE13864_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Deletion of the RPS6 gene in mouse liver results in the inhibition of 40S ribosome biogenesis and the failure of hepatocytes to enter S-phase following partial hepatectomy. This microarray experiment was designed to assess the effects of RPS6 deletion on the expression of genes involved in liver regeneration following partial hepatectomy."'
GSE13864_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from mouse livers at different time-points following partial hepatectomy. Conditional deletion of the RPS6 gene was perfomed by injecting polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid in mice harbouring a floxed version of the RPS6 gene and a cre recombinase under the regulation of an interferon responsive promoter (MX-CRE). The mice used a control have also a floxed version of the RPS6 gene but lack the cre recombinaste transgene."'
GSE13867_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARg) regulates the interface between cellular lipid metabolism, redox status and organelle differentiation. Following conditional prostatic epithelial knockout of PPARg in mice we observed focal hyperplasia of the epithelium which developed to mouse prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (mPIN), becoming progressively more severe with time. We selectively knocked down PPARg2 isoform in wild-type mouse prostatic epithelial cells and examined the consequences of this in a tissue recombination model. Histopathologically the results resembled the conditional PPARg KO mouse prostates. Electron microscopy showed accumulated defective lysosomes and autophagic vacuoles in both of PPARg- and g2- deficient cells. Gene expression profiling indicated a major dysregulation of cell cycle control and metabolic signaling networks related to peroxisomal and lysosomal maturation, lipid oxidation and degradation. We conclude that PPARg maintains the maturation and turnover of peroxisomes and lysosomes in prostate epithelium. Disruption of PPARg signaling results in autophagy and oxidative stress during mPIN pathogenesis. "'
GSE13867_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARg) regulates the interface between cellular lipid metabolism, redox status and organelle differentiation. Following conditional prostatic epithelial knockout of PPARg in mice we observed focal hyperplasia of the epithelium which developed to mouse prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (mPIN), becoming progressively more severe with time. We selectively knocked down PPARg2 isoform in wild-type mouse prostatic epithelial cells and examined the consequences of this in a tissue recombination model. Histopathologically the results resembled the conditional PPARg KO mouse prostates. Electron microscopy showed accumulated defective lysosomes and autophagic vacuoles in both of PPARg- and g2- deficient cells. Gene expression profiling indicated a major dysregulation of cell cycle control and metabolic signaling networks related to peroxisomal and lysosomal maturation, lipid oxidation and degradation. We conclude that PPARg maintains the maturation and turnover of peroxisomes and lysosomes in prostate epithelium. Disruption of PPARg signaling results in autophagy and oxidative stress during mPIN pathogenesis. "'
GSE13867_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARg) regulates the interface between cellular lipid metabolism, redox status and organelle differentiation. Following conditional prostatic epithelial knockout of PPARg in mice we observed focal hyperplasia of the epithelium which developed to mouse prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (mPIN), becoming progressively more severe with time. We selectively knocked down PPARg2 isoform in wild-type mouse prostatic epithelial cells and examined the consequences of this in a tissue recombination model. Histopathologically the results resembled the conditional PPARg KO mouse prostates. Electron microscopy showed accumulated defective lysosomes and autophagic vacuoles in both of PPARg- and g2- deficient cells. Gene expression profiling indicated a major dysregulation of cell cycle control and metabolic signaling networks related to peroxisomal and lysosomal maturation, lipid oxidation and degradation. We conclude that PPARg maintains the maturation and turnover of peroxisomes and lysosomes in prostate epithelium. Disruption of PPARg signaling results in autophagy and oxidative stress during mPIN pathogenesis. "'
GSE13867_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"The mPrE-PPARg knockout and mPrE-PPARg2 shRNA cells were compared to wildtype mPrE cells. Time (3 days culture) and cell types (x 4) were tested."'
GSE13869_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"A nxnl1 knockout mouse model was created and the transcriptome used to demonstrate that the retina is compromised by the absence of nxnl1."'
GSE13869_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"In total 9 samples were analyzed, they represent three different genotypes (wt/wt, ko/wt, ko/ko) that were tested in triplicate each."'
GSE13873_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"We chose mice for gene expression profiling that following Helicobacter infection had (a) symptoms of gastritis, but no epithelial changes, (b) atrophic gastritis accompanied by corpus gland hyperplasia or (c) atrophic gastritis accompanied by intestinal metaplasia. An uninfected control group was also included in the analysis, as were two groups of mice that lacked mature T- and B-cells due to a deletion mutation in the rag1 gene (Rag-1-/-) and that were either experimentally infected or served as Rag-1-/- uninfected controls. To see the effects of IFNg on murine gastric epithelial cells we analysed an immortalized murine primary gastric epithelial cell line treated with three different concentrations of IFNg in comparison to an untreated control."'
GSE13916_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Overexpression and/or amplification of the ErbB-2 oncogene, as well as inactivation of the tumor suppressor PTEN, are two important genetic events in human breast carcinogenesis.  To address the biological impact of conditional inactivation of PTEN on ErbB-2-induced mammary tumorigenesis, we generated a novel transgenic mouse model that utilizes the MMTV promoter to directly couple expression of activated ErbB-2 and Cre recombinase to the same mammary epithelial cell (MMTV-NIC).  Disruption of PTEN in the mammary epithelium of the MMTV-NIC model system dramatically accelerated the formation of multifocal and highly metastatic mammary tumors, which exhibit homogenous pathology.  PTEN-deficient/NIC tumorigenesis was associated with an increase in angiogenesis. Moreover, inactivation of PTEN in the MMTV-NIC mouse model resulted in hyperactivation of the PI3K/Akt signalling pathway. However, like the parental strain, tumors obtained from PTEN-deficient/NIC mice displayed histopathological and molecular features of the luminal-like subtype of breast cancer.  Taken together, our findings provide important implications in understanding the molecular determinants of mammary tumorigenesis driven by PTEN deficiency and ErbB-2 activation, and could provide a valuable tool for testing the efficacy of therapeutic strategies that target these critical signalling pathways."'
GSE13916_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Overexpression and/or amplification of the ErbB-2 oncogene, as well as inactivation of the tumor suppressor PTEN, are two important genetic events in human breast carcinogenesis.  To address the biological impact of conditional inactivation of PTEN on ErbB-2-induced mammary tumorigenesis, we generated a novel transgenic mouse model that utilizes the MMTV promoter to directly couple expression of activated ErbB-2 and Cre recombinase to the same mammary epithelial cell (MMTV-NIC).  Disruption of PTEN in the mammary epithelium of the MMTV-NIC model system dramatically accelerated the formation of multifocal and highly metastatic mammary tumors, which exhibit homogenous pathology.  PTEN-deficient/NIC tumorigenesis was associated with an increase in angiogenesis. Moreover, inactivation of PTEN in the MMTV-NIC mouse model resulted in hyperactivation of the PI3K/Akt signalling pathway. However, like the parental strain, tumors obtained from PTEN-deficient/NIC mice displayed histopathological and molecular features of the luminal-like subtype of breast cancer.  Taken together, our findings provide important implications in understanding the molecular determinants of mammary tumorigenesis driven by PTEN deficiency and ErbB-2 activation, and could provide a valuable tool for testing the efficacy of therapeutic strategies that target these critical signalling pathways."'
GSE13935_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in pylorus stomach tissue in Bapx1 (Nkx3.2) deficient mice"'
GSE13935_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Bapx1 (Nkx3.2) is an important factor for GI development.  We document a morphologic change in the pylorus segment of the GI tract in Bapx1 deficient mice and we have used microarray analyses to assess gene exprofiles in the pylorus stomach region in knockout compared to wildtype littermates."'
GSE13935_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Bapx1 (Nkx3.2) is an important factor for GI development.  We document a morphologic change in the pylorus segment of the GI tract in Bapx1 deficient mice and we have used microarray analyses to assess gene exprofiles in the pylorus stomach region in knockout compared to wildtype littermates."'
GSE13935_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Genetic modiufied mice deficient in Bapx1 expression"'
GSE13935_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA from 3 Bapx1 knockout animals and 3 control wildtype littermates were analyzed."'
GSE13948_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNA-122 (miR-122) is an abundant liver-specific miRNA, implicated in fatty acid and cholesterol metabolism as well as hepatitis C viral replication. Here, we report that a systemically administered 16-nt, unconjugated LNA (locked nucleic acid)-antimiR oligonucleotide complementary to the 5' end of miR-122 leads to specific, dose-dependent silencing of miR-122 and shows no hepatotoxicity in mice. Antagonism of miR-122 is due to formation of stable heteroduplexes between the LNA-antimiR and miR-122 as detected by northern analysis. Fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated uptake of the LNA-antimiR in mouse liver cells, which was accompanied by markedly reduced hybridization signals for mature miR-122 in treated mice. Functional antagonism of miR-122 was inferred from a low cholesterol phenotype and de-repression within 24 h of 199 liver mRNAs showing significant enrichment for miR-122 seed matches in their 3' UTRs. Expression profiling extended to 3 weeks after the last LNA-antimiR dose revealed that most of the changes in liver gene expression were normalized to saline control levels coinciding with normalized miR-122 and plasma cholesterol levels. Combined, these data suggest that miRNA antagonists comprised of LNA are valuable tools for identifying miRNA targets in vivo and for studying the biological role of miRNAs and miRNA-associated gene-regulatory networks in a physiological context."'
GSE13974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_title	"Genetic inactivation of serine racemase produces behavioral phenotypes related to schizophrenia in mice"'
GSE13974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Abnormal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.  D-serine is an important NMDAR modulator, and to elucidate the role of the D-serine synthesis enzyme serine racemase (Srr) in schizophrenia, we identified and characterized mice with an ENU-induced mutation that results in a complete loss of Srr activity and drastically reduced D-serine levels.  Mutant mice displayed behaviors relevant to schizophrenia, including impairments in prepulse inhibition, sociability and spatial discrimination.  Behavioral deficits were rescued by D-serine and the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, and were conversely, amplified by NMDAR inhibition.  Expression profiling revealed that the Srr mutation influenced several genes that have been linked to schizophrenia and cognitive ability.  Furthermore, analysis of Srr genetic variants in humans identified a robust association with schizophrenia.  This study demonstrates that aberrant serine racemase function and diminished D-serine may contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis, and that D-serine may be a beneficial form of treatment"'
GSE13974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Abnormal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.  D-serine is an important NMDAR modulator, and to elucidate the role of the D-serine synthesis enzyme serine racemase (Srr) in schizophrenia, we identified and characterized mice with an ENU-induced mutation that results in a complete loss of Srr activity and drastically reduced D-serine levels.  Mutant mice displayed behaviors relevant to schizophrenia, including impairments in prepulse inhibition, sociability and spatial discrimination.  Behavioral deficits were rescued by D-serine and the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, and were conversely, amplified by NMDAR inhibition.  Expression profiling revealed that the Srr mutation influenced several genes that have been linked to schizophrenia and cognitive ability.  Furthermore, analysis of Srr genetic variants in humans identified a robust association with schizophrenia.  This study demonstrates that aberrant serine racemase function and diminished D-serine may contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis, and that D-serine may be a beneficial form of treatment"'
GSE13981_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Global gene expression profiles in Oct4-knockdown and Ccna2-knockdown mouse embryos."'
GSE13981_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Gene regulation at the maternal-embryonic transition in the pre-implantation mouse embryo is not well understood.  We knock down Ccna2 to establish proof-of-concept that antisense morpholino oligonucleotides can be used to target specific genes.  We applied this strategy to study Oct4 and discovered that Oct4 is required prior to blastocyst development.  Specifically, gene expression is altered as early as the 2-cell stage in Oct4-knockdown embryos."'
GSE13981_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct subsets of genes are differentially expressed between Oct4 and Ccna2-knockdown embryos, and indicated differential functions.  Further, a large panel of genes were confirmed to be differentially-expressed in Oct4-knockdown embryos by quantitative, real time RT-PCR."'
GSE13981_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: gene knockdown"'
GSE13984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Cerebellum from post-natal day 11 L1 knockout mice on the 129Sv background were compared to wild type littermates.  The original goal of the study was to determine if there was compensation from other L1 family members or alterations in cell survival or apoptosis.  Interestingly no major changes were detected in those families or pathways."'
GSE13992_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The HGF/c-Met system is an essential inducer of hepatocyte growth and proliferation. Although a fundamental role for the HGF receptor c-Met has been demonstrated in acute liver regeneration its cell specific role in hepatocytes during chronic liver injury and fibrosis progression has not been determined yet. In order to better characterize the role of c-Met in hepatocytes we generated a hepatocyte-specific c-Met knockout mouse (c-Met∆hepa) using the Cre-loxP system and studied its relevance after bile-duct ligation. Two strategies for c-Met deletion in hepatocytes were tested. Early deletion during embryonic development was lethal, while post-natal Cre-expression was successful leading to the generation of viable c-Met∆hepa mice. Bile-duct ligation in these mice resulted in extensive necrosis and lower proliferation rates of hepatocytes. Gene array analysis of c-Met∆hepa mice revealed a significant reduction of anti-apoptotic genes in c-Met deleted hepatocytes. These findings could be functionally tested as c-Met∆hepa mice showed a stronger apoptotic response after bile-duct ligation and Jo-2 stimulation. This phenotype was associated with increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-a and IL-6) and an enhanced recruitment of neutrophils. Activation of these mechanisms triggered a stronger pro-fibrogenic response as evidenced by increased TGF-b1, a-SMA, collagen-1a mRNA expression and enhanced collagen-fiber staining in c-Met∆hepa mice."'
GSE13992_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The HGF/c-Met system is an essential inducer of hepatocyte growth and proliferation. Although a fundamental role for the HGF receptor c-Met has been demonstrated in acute liver regeneration its cell specific role in hepatocytes during chronic liver injury and fibrosis progression has not been determined yet. In order to better characterize the role of c-Met in hepatocytes we generated a hepatocyte-specific c-Met knockout mouse (c-Met∆hepa) using the Cre-loxP system and studied its relevance after bile-duct ligation. Two strategies for c-Met deletion in hepatocytes were tested. Early deletion during embryonic development was lethal, while post-natal Cre-expression was successful leading to the generation of viable c-Met∆hepa mice. Bile-duct ligation in these mice resulted in extensive necrosis and lower proliferation rates of hepatocytes. Gene array analysis of c-Met∆hepa mice revealed a significant reduction of anti-apoptotic genes in c-Met deleted hepatocytes. These findings could be functionally tested as c-Met∆hepa mice showed a stronger apoptotic response after bile-duct ligation and Jo-2 stimulation. This phenotype was associated with increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-a and IL-6) and an enhanced recruitment of neutrophils. Activation of these mechanisms triggered a stronger pro-fibrogenic response as evidenced by increased TGF-b1, a-SMA, collagen-1a mRNA expression and enhanced collagen-fiber staining in c-Met∆hepa mice."'
GSE14004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The nuclear receptor PPAR gamma is required for adipocyte differentiation, but its role in mature adipocytes is less clear.  Here we report that knockdown of PPAR gamma expression in 3T3-L1 adipocytes returned the expression of most adipocyte genes towards preadipocyte levels. Consistently, down regulated but not up regulated genes showed strong enrichment of PPAR gamma binding. Surprisingly, not all adipocyte genes were reversed and the adipocyte morphology was maintained for an extended period after PPAR gamma depletion.  To explain this, we focused on transcriptional regulators whose adipogenic regulation was not reversed upon PPAR gamma depletion. We identified GATA2, a transcription factor whose down-regulation early in adipogenesis is required for preadipocyte differentiation, remaining low after PPAR gamma knockdown. Forced expression of GATA2 in mature adipocytes complemented PPAR gamma depletion and impaired adipocyte functionality with a more preadipocyte- like gene expression profile. Ectopic expression of GATA2 in adipose tissue in vivo had similar effect on adipogenic gene expression. These results suggest that PPAR gamma-independent down regulation of GATA2 prevents reversion of mature adipocytes after PPAR gamma depletion."'
GSE14006_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"To gain molecular understanding of the the hair cycle delay in Bmal mutant mice, we profiled the dorsal skin of Bmal knockout (-/-) and their heterozygous (+/-) littermates at P22. At P22, the skin samples are comparable because all the samples are in telogen just prior to the hair cycle delay was observed. Histological sections were used to classify each sample into specific stage of the hair growth cycle based on established morphological guidelines. RNA from each mouse dorsal skin were separately hybridized to an Affymetrix Mouse Gene 1.0 ST array."'
GSE14024_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) axis is an important signaling pathway in the growth and survival of many cell types and has been implicated in multiple aspects of cancer progression from tumorigenesis to metastasis. The multiple roles of IGF signaling in cancer suggest that selective inhibition of the pathway might yield clinically effective therapeutics. Here we describe A-928605, a novel small molecule inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinase responsible for IGF signal transduction. This small molecule is able to abrogate activation of the pathway as shown by effects on the target and downstream effectors and is shown to be effective at inhibiting the proliferation of an oncogene addicted tumor model cell line (CD8-IGF1R 3T3) both in vitro and in vivo. "'
GSE14031-GPL5105_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Global survey of miRNA profiles in the uterus and an estrogen receptor alpha knockout embryo"'
GSE14031-GPL5106_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Global survey of miRNA profiles in the uterus and an estrogen receptor alpha knockout embryo"'
GSE14045_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Analysis of changes in gene expression in epidermal stem cells upon loss of Polycomb silencing"'
GSE14045_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Analysis of changes in gene expression in epidermal stem cells upon loss of Polycomb silencing"'
GSE14059_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiles of heterozygous periphilin knockout mice compared to wt littermates"'
GSE14059_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Periphilin is a protein which is involved in multiple processes in vivo, including terminal differentiation of keratinozytes as well as cell-cycle and cancer related functions. Here we generated mice with a targeted disruption of the periphilin-1 gene to explore its physiological role from an organismic perspective. In accordance with a ubiquitous expression of periphilin in the murine embryo, the homozygous deficiency of periphilin is lethal in early embryogenesis. We therefore characterized mice with a disruption of only one periphilin allele. As heterozygous periphilin knockout mice show no obvious histological alterations and have no apparent behavioural phenotypes, we compared whole transcriptome RNA expression profiles of total brain tissue of periphilin+/- knockout mice and wild type littermates for an in-depth analysis of heterozygous animals. In periphilin+/- knockout mice, 3 probe sets were indicative of significant differential expression (p ≤ 0.05, SLR ≥ 1 which is equivalent to 2 fold). Two of these probe sets (1438864_at and 1439170_at) refer to unannotated or unclassifiable genes. According to the NetAffx™ Analysis Center, the third probe set (1447831_s_at) is assigned to myotubularin related protein 7 (Mtmr7). The probe set, however, lies upstream of the Mtmr7 gene (Ensembl gene ENSMUSG00000039431), and its signal is therefore not representative for the Mtmr7 gene. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis with a primer set specific for Mtmr7 confirmed that its expression is not altered in periphilin+/- knockout mice (relative expression compared to wild type: 0.924; p = 0.419). In summary, none of more than 45.000 covered transcripts is differentially expressed in periphilin+/- knockout mice in comparison to wild type littermates."'
GSE14059_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole brains of three male 2-months-old periphilin+/-knockout mice and three C57BL/6-wild type littermates"'
GSE14073-GPL6794_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"siRNAs mediate sequence-specific gene silencing in cultured mammalian cells but also silence unintended transcripts. Many siRNA off-target transcripts match the guide-strand ‘‘seed region,’’ similar to the way microRNAs match their target sites. The extent to which this seed-matched, microRNA-like, off-target silencing affects the specificity of therapeutic siRNAs in vivo is currently unknown. Here, we compare microRNA-like off-target regulations in mouse liver in vivo with those seen in cell culture for a series of therapeutic candidate siRNAs targeting Apolipoprotein B (APOB). Each siRNA triggered regulation of consistent microRNA-like off-target transcripts in mouse livers and in cultured mouse liver tumor cells. In contrast, there was only random overlap between microRNA-like off-target transcripts from cultured human and mouse liver tumor cells. Therefore, siRNA therapeutics may trigger microRNA-like silencing of many unintended targets in vivo, and the potential toxicities caused by these off-target gene regulations cannot be accurately assessed in rodent models."'
GSE14088_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Ube2m and Ube2f are E2 enzymes that direct protein modification by NEDD8. Here we explore the specific functions of Ube2f and Ube2m by comparing gene expression profiles following knockdown of their function in NIH 3T3 cells."'
GSE14088_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression changes following knockdown of Ube2m and Ube2f in NIH 3T3 cells."'
GSE14089_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We determined the gene expression profiles of murine melan-a melanocytes treated with ASP or alpha-MSH over a 4 days time course using genome-wide oligonucleotide microarrays. As expected, the gene expression patterns emphasized the opposing effects of the 2 ligands, and there were significant reductions in expression of numerous melanogenic proteins elicited by ASP, which correlates with its inhibition of pigmentation. However, ASP also unexpectidly modulated the expression of genes involved in various other cellular pathways, including glutathione synthesis and redox metabolism. Many genes up-regulated by ASP are involved in morphogenesis, cell adhesion and ECM-receptor interactions."'
GSE14101_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Leukemias with MLL-rearrangements are characterized by high expression of the homeo box gene MEIS1. In these studies, we knocked down Meis1 expression by shRNA lentivirus transduction in murine Mll-AF9 leukemia cells. Meis1 knockdown resulted in decreased proliferation and survival of murine Mll-AF9 leukemia cells. We also observed reduced clonogenic capacity and increased monocytic differentiation. The establishment of leukemia in transplant recipients was significantly delayed by Meis1 knockdown. Gene expression profiling of cells transduced with Meis1 shRNA showed reduced expression of genes associated with cell cycle entry and progression. shRNA mediated knockdown of MEIS1 in human MLL-fusion gene leukemia cell lines resulted in reduced cell growth. These results show that MEIS1 expression is important for MLL-rearranged leukemias and suggest that MEIS1 promotes cell cycle entry. Targeting MEIS1 may have therapeutic potential for treating leukemias expressing this transcription factor."'
GSE14201_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The small intestinal epithelium is the most rapidly self-renewing tissue of mammals. Proliferative cells are confined to crypts, while differentiated cell types predominantly occupy the villi. We recently demonstrated the existence of a long-lived pool of cycling stem cells defined by Lgr5 expression and intermingled with post-mitotic Paneth cells at crypt bottoms. We have now determined a gene signature for these so called Crypt Base Columnar (CBC) cells. One of the genes within this stem cell signature is the Wnt target Ascl2. Transgenic expression of the Ascl2 transcription factor throughout the intestinal epithelium induces crypt hyperplasia and de novo crypt formation on villi. Induced deletion of the Ascl2 gene in adult small intestine leads to disappearance of the CBC stem cells within days. The combined results from these gain- and loss-of-function experiments imply that Ascl2 controls intestinal stem cell fate."'
GSE14216_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"We compared gene expression patterns in Wildtype and DNA methylation deficient (Emx1-cre; Dnmt1 mutant) mouse dorsal cortex. We performed 3 replicates using different each individual mouse strain. The Sample GSM350992 table is the average log ratio for the 3 replicatesArrays were performed in triplicate."'
GSE14219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_title	"Expression profile of Sall4-null ES cells and Sall4 heterozygous ES cells"'
GSE14219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Sall4 is a mouse homolog of a causative gene of the autosomal dominant disorder known as Okihiro syndrome. We previously showed that Sall4 absence leads to lethality during peri-implantation and that Sall4-null embryonic stem (ES) cells proliferate poorly with intact pluripotency when cultured on feeder cells. However, a subsequent report indicated that shRNA-mediated Sall4 inhibition in ES cells led to a severe reduction in Oct3/4 and a secondary increase in Cdx2, which resulted in complete differentiation into the trophectoderm when cultured in the feeder-free condition. So we profiled gene expression changes when Sall4 is deleted in ES cells in the presence or absence of feeder cells."'
GSE14219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Sall4 is a mouse homolog of a causative gene of the autosomal dominant disorder known as Okihiro syndrome. We previously showed that Sall4 absence leads to lethality during peri-implantation and that Sall4-null embryonic stem (ES) cells proliferate poorly with intact pluripotency when cultured on feeder cells. However, a subsequent report indicated that shRNA-mediated Sall4 inhibition in ES cells led to a severe reduction in Oct3/4 and a secondary increase in Cdx2, which resulted in complete differentiation into the trophectoderm when cultured in the feeder-free condition. So we profiled gene expression changes when Sall4 is deleted in ES cells in the presence or absence of feeder cells."'
GSE14226_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We previously identified a novel SNF1/AMPK-related protein kinase, Hunk, from a mammary tumor arising in an MMTV-neu transgenic mouse. The function of this kinase is unknown. Using targeted deletion in mice, we now demonstrate that Hunk is required for the metastasis of c-myc-induced mammary tumors, but is dispensable for normal development. Reconstitution experiments revealed that Hunk is sufficient to restore the metastatic potential of Hunk-deficient tumor cells, as well as defects in migration and invasion, and does so in a manner that requires its kinase activity. Consistent with a role for Hunk in the progression of human cancers, the human homologue of Hunk is overexpressed in aggressive subsets of carcinomas of the ovary, colon, and breast. In addition, a murine gene expression signature that distinguishes Hunk-wild type from Hunk-deficient mammary tumors predicts clinical outcome in women with breast cancer. Together, these findings establish a role for Hunk in metastasis and an in vivo function for this kinase."'
GSE14226_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We previously identified a novel SNF1/AMPK-related protein kinase, Hunk, from a mammary tumor arising in an MMTV-neu transgenic mouse. The function of this kinase is unknown. Using targeted deletion in mice, we now demonstrate that Hunk is required for the metastasis of c-myc-induced mammary tumors, but is dispensable for normal development. Reconstitution experiments revealed that Hunk is sufficient to restore the metastatic potential of Hunk-deficient tumor cells, as well as defects in migration and invasion, and does so in a manner that requires its kinase activity. Consistent with a role for Hunk in the progression of human cancers, the human homologue of Hunk is overexpressed in aggressive subsets of carcinomas of the ovary, colon, and breast. In addition, a murine gene expression signature that distinguishes Hunk-wild type from Hunk-deficient mammary tumors predicts clinical outcome in women with breast cancer. Together, these findings establish a role for Hunk in metastasis and an in vivo function for this kinase."'
GSE14226_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Hunk-deficient animals were crossed to mice harboring an MMTV-c-myc transgene (Leder et al., 1986).  Hunk heterozygous, MMTV-c-myc mice were backcrossed to Hunk heterozygous animals.  MMTV-c-myc female animals of each Hunk genotype were mated twice, then monitored twice weekly for mammary tumors.  Mice possessing tumors with a maximum diameter of 20 mm were sacrificed and organs were examined at necropsy.  Tumor nodules were identified by examination of organs through a Leica Wild MZ8 dissection microscope."'
GSE14274_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Gprc5b, a retinoic acid-inducible orphan G protein–coupled receptor, is a member of the group C metabotropic glutamate receptor family.  Its function is unknown.  However, recent evidence suggests that it binds Frizzled Wnt receptors and may activate noncanonical Wnt signaling pathways.  Here we report the discovery of a brain-enriched C-terminal splice variant of Gprc5b, Gprc5b_v2, by cDNA microarray and RT-PCR analyses.  The variant appeared to have been downregulated in the brains of learning/memory-deficient p97FE65 null mice.  Despite the fact that the mice had been backcrossed with the C57Bl/6J strain for more than ten generations, Gprc5b and other genes surrounding the FE65 locus on mouse chromosome 7 were retained from the 129-derived ES cells used to generate the knockout line.  The differential splicing is unlikely due to FE65 function, as originally suspected, as Gprc5b_v2 expression is also downregulated in the brains of 129/Sv substrains in comparison to C57Bl/6J mice.  Further characterization revealed the expression of both Gprc5b_v2 and the previously described variant, Gprc5b_v1, in neurons.  Interestingly, Gprc5b_v2 mRNA levels increase with neuronal maturation, paralleling the expression of synaptic proteins involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity.  Finally, we report evidence that both Gprc5b_v2 and Gprc5b_v1 regulate neurite outgrowth.  These results are consistent with a putative function of Gprc5b in noncanonical Wnt signaling, which play roles in the regulation of neuronal morphology, and the formation and modulation of neuronal circuitry."'
GSE14274_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Gprc5b, a retinoic acid-inducible orphan G protein–coupled receptor, is a member of the group C metabotropic glutamate receptor family.  Its function is unknown.  However, recent evidence suggests that it binds Frizzled Wnt receptors and may activate noncanonical Wnt signaling pathways.  Here we report the discovery of a brain-enriched C-terminal splice variant of Gprc5b, Gprc5b_v2, by cDNA microarray and RT-PCR analyses.  The variant appeared to have been downregulated in the brains of learning/memory-deficient p97FE65 null mice.  Despite the fact that the mice had been backcrossed with the C57Bl/6J strain for more than ten generations, Gprc5b and other genes surrounding the FE65 locus on mouse chromosome 7 were retained from the 129-derived ES cells used to generate the knockout line.  The differential splicing is unlikely due to FE65 function, as originally suspected, as Gprc5b_v2 expression is also downregulated in the brains of 129/Sv substrains in comparison to C57Bl/6J mice.  Further characterization revealed the expression of both Gprc5b_v2 and the previously described variant, Gprc5b_v1, in neurons.  Interestingly, Gprc5b_v2 mRNA levels increase with neuronal maturation, paralleling the expression of synaptic proteins involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity.  Finally, we report evidence that both Gprc5b_v2 and Gprc5b_v1 regulate neurite outgrowth.  These results are consistent with a putative function of Gprc5b in noncanonical Wnt signaling, which play roles in the regulation of neuronal morphology, and the formation and modulation of neuronal circuitry."'
GSE14274_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Gprc5b, a retinoic acid-inducible orphan G protein–coupled receptor, is a member of the group C metabotropic glutamate receptor family.  Its function is unknown.  However, recent evidence suggests that it binds Frizzled Wnt receptors and may activate noncanonical Wnt signaling pathways.  Here we report the discovery of a brain-enriched C-terminal splice variant of Gprc5b, Gprc5b_v2, by cDNA microarray and RT-PCR analyses.  The variant appeared to have been downregulated in the brains of learning/memory-deficient p97FE65 null mice.  Despite the fact that the mice had been backcrossed with the C57Bl/6J strain for more than ten generations, Gprc5b and other genes surrounding the FE65 locus on mouse chromosome 7 were retained from the 129-derived ES cells used to generate the knockout line.  The differential splicing is unlikely due to FE65 function, as originally suspected, as Gprc5b_v2 expression is also downregulated in the brains of 129/Sv substrains in comparison to C57Bl/6J mice.  Further characterization revealed the expression of both Gprc5b_v2 and the previously described variant, Gprc5b_v1, in neurons.  Interestingly, Gprc5b_v2 mRNA levels increase with neuronal maturation, paralleling the expression of synaptic proteins involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity.  Finally, we report evidence that both Gprc5b_v2 and Gprc5b_v1 regulate neurite outgrowth.  These results are consistent with a putative function of Gprc5b in noncanonical Wnt signaling, which play roles in the regulation of neuronal morphology, and the formation and modulation of neuronal circuitry."'
GSE14274_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cerebral cortex tissues were dissected from five FE65 wild-type and p97FE65 null littermate pairs (6 months of age)"'
GSE14320_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) pathway has been involved in two major cascades of gene expression regulating neuronal function. The first one presents CREB as a critical component of the molecular switch that control longlasting forms of neuronal plasticity and learning. The second one relates CREB to neuronal survival and protection. To investigate the role of CREB-dependent gene expression in neuronal plasticity and survival in vivo, we generated bitransgenic mice expressing A-CREB, an artificial peptide with strong and broad inhibitory effect on the CREB family, in forebrain neurons in a regulatable manner. The expression of ACREB in hippocampal neurons impaired L-LTP, reduced intrinsic excitability and the susceptibility to induced seizures, and altered both basal and activity-driven gene expression. In the long-term, the chronic inhibition of CREB function caused severe loss of neurons in the CA1 subfield as well as in other brain regions. Our experiments confirmed previous findings in CREB deficient mutants and revealed new aspects of CREB-dependent gene expression in the hippocampus supporting a dual role for CREB-dependent gene expression regulating intrinsic and synaptic plasticity and promoting neuronal survival. manufacturer's protocol."'
GSE14320_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) pathway has been involved in two major cascades of gene expression regulating neuronal function. The first one presents CREB as a critical component of the molecular switch that control longlasting forms of neuronal plasticity and learning. The second one relates CREB to neuronal survival and protection. To investigate the role of CREB-dependent gene expression in neuronal plasticity and survival in vivo, we generated bitransgenic mice expressing A-CREB, an artificial peptide with strong and broad inhibitory effect on the CREB family, in forebrain neurons in a regulatable manner. The expression of ACREB in hippocampal neurons impaired L-LTP, reduced intrinsic excitability and the susceptibility to induced seizures, and altered both basal and activity-driven gene expression. In the long-term, the chronic inhibition of CREB function caused severe loss of neurons in the CA1 subfield as well as in other brain regions. Our experiments confirmed previous findings in CREB deficient mutants and revealed new aspects of CREB-dependent gene expression in the hippocampus supporting a dual role for CREB-dependent gene expression regulating intrinsic and synaptic plasticity and promoting neuronal survival. manufacturer's protocol."'
GSE14320_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) pathway has been involved in two major cascades of gene expression regulating neuronal function. The first one presents CREB as a critical component of the molecular switch that control longlasting forms of neuronal plasticity and learning. The second one relates CREB to neuronal survival and protection. To investigate the role of CREB-dependent gene expression in neuronal plasticity and survival in vivo, we generated bitransgenic mice expressing A-CREB, an artificial peptide with strong and broad inhibitory effect on the CREB family, in forebrain neurons in a regulatable manner. The expression of ACREB in hippocampal neurons impaired L-LTP, reduced intrinsic excitability and the susceptibility to induced seizures, and altered both basal and activity-driven gene expression. In the long-term, the chronic inhibition of CREB function caused severe loss of neurons in the CA1 subfield as well as in other brain regions. Our experiments confirmed previous findings in CREB deficient mutants and revealed new aspects of CREB-dependent gene expression in the hippocampus supporting a dual role for CREB-dependent gene expression regulating intrinsic and synaptic plasticity and promoting neuronal survival. manufacturer's protocol."'
GSE14326_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional analysis of Rest/Nrsf silencing in N18 neuroblastoma cell line"'
GSE14326_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The vertebrate-specific transcription factor RE-1 silencing transcription factor or neuron-restrictive silencer factor (REST/NRSF) was first described as a negative regulator restricting expression of neuronal genes to neurons in a variety of genetic contexts. However, REST/NRSF has a more general role in the regulation of gene expression that involves chromatin remodelling via a SWI/SNF complex. We identified a 677 gene repertoire of potential REST/NRSF-dependent genes taking advantage of Rest/Nrsf gene silencing in a mouse cell line. Using Ka/Ks analysis, we found that REST/NRSF protein, REST/NRSF interactors and the products of REST/NRSF-dependent genes display significantly higher rates of protein evolution in primates than in rodents. The McDonald-Kreitman test indicated positive selection for human REST/NRSF and nuclear RNA-binding proteins encoded by REST/NRSFdependent genes. In these proteins, we demonstrated sites under positive selection within the primate’s clade. Importantly, the REST/NRSF-dependent gene repertoire is statistically enriched in genes disrupted in neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia. In addition, we found that Smarca2 (Brm), Smarcd3 (Baf60c), Smarce1 (Baf57), Hdac1, RcoR1, and Mecp2, which are part of the REST/NRSFSWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complex, are transcriptionally regulated by REST/NRSF. Changing their gene dosage in vitro induced abnormal dendritic and dendritic spine phenotypes that were previously observed in rodent models of neuropsychiatric diseases. Altogether, these results suggest that genes encoding proteins of the REST/NRSF-SWI/SNF pathway display primate-specific accelerated"'
GSE14326_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"Agilent Whole Mouse Genome oligomicroarrays (GEO accession no. GPL2872, Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA) were used. They contain 60-mer DNA probes synthesized in situ in a 44k format. Of 44,290 spots, 2756 are controls. The remaining 41,534 spots represent 33,661 unique transcripts which correspond to 20,202 unique human genes. Six independent (NRSF silencing overexpression, six individual samples) measurements were carried out for each group of biological conditions using exchanged dye-labeled RNA targets (i.e., Cy3 and Cy5 dyeswapping experiments)."'
GSE14344-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Brg knockdown effect on expression, Brg ChIP-Seq"'
GSE14344-GPL9185_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Brg knockdown effect on expression, Brg ChIP-Seq"'
GSE14350_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) signaling is essential for T regulatory (Treg) cell development and homeostasis. Here we show that expression of IL-2Rbeta chains that lack tyrosine residues important for the association of the adaptor Shc and the transcription factor STAT5 in IL-2Rbeta-deficient mice resulted in production of a normal proportion of natural Treg cells that suppressed severe autoimmunity related with deficiency in IL-2 or IL-2R. These mutant IL-2Rbeta chains supported suboptimal and transient STAT5 activation that upregulate the transcription factor Foxp3 to normal amounts in natural, but not induced, Treg cells. Using cells T cell obtained from normal C57BL/6 mice and mice harboring Treg cells with impaired IL-2R signaling, gene expression profiling revealed many targets in peripheral natural Treg cells that were IL-2-dependent and a substantial overlap between the Treg cell IL-2-dependent gene program and the Treg cell transcriptional signature. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that a critical, and perhaps minor, subset of IL-2-dependent targets in Treg cells is indexed to a low IL-2R signaling threshold and that a substantial proportion of the Treg cell gene program is regulated by IL-2. CD4 T effector cells also showed many IL-2R-dependent gene and these also overlapped in a distintive manner with the IL-2-dependent genes of Treg cells and the Treg gene signature."'
GSE14350_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"For each strain, we analyzed two cell populations, freshly isolated Treg cells and T effector cells. These latter cells were obtained after spleen cells activated with anti-CD3 for 48 hr and then isolating the CD4+ CD25+ activated effector T cells. The IL-2R defective T cells were obtained from C57BL/6-2Rbeta-WT/thymus transgenic mice after breeding to IL-2Rbeta-deficient mice. Each sample consisted of 3 distinct biological replicates.  After GC-RMA normalization, intensity values were average for the replicates within the groups. We compared the differentially expressed genes within each group  and these differential expressed genes were then compared between each other and Treg gene signature."'
GSE14361_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Maintenance of the blood system is dependent on dormant haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) with long-term self-renewal capacity. Upon injury these cells are induced to proliferate in order to quickly re-establish homeostasis. The signalling molecules promoting the exit of HSCs out of the dormant stage remain largely unknown. Here we show that in response to treatment of mice with interferon-alpha (IFNα), HSCs efficiently exit G0 and enter an active cell cycle. HSCs respond to IFNα treatment by increased phosphorylation of STAT1 and PKB/Akt, expression of IFNα target genes and up-regulation of stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1). HSCs lacking either the interferon-α/β receptor (IFNAR), STAT1 or Sca-1 are insensitive to IFNα stimulation, demonstrating that STAT1 and Sca-1 mediate IFNα induced HSC proliferation. Although dormant HSCs are resistant to the anti-proliferative chemotherapeutic agent 5-FU1, HSCs pre-treated (primed) with IFNα and thus induced to proliferate are efficiently eliminated by 5-FU exposure in vivo. Conversely, HSCs chronically activated by IFNα are functionally compromised and are rapidly out competed by non-activatable IFNAR-/- cells in competitive repopulation assays. In summary, while chronic activation of the IFNα pathway in HSCs impairs their function, acute IFNα treatment promotes the proliferation of dormant HSCs in vivo. These data may help to clarify the so far unexplained clinical effects of IFNα on leukemic cells and raise the possibility for novel applications of type I interferons to target cancer stem cells. "'
GSE14365_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from WT and Aire deficient mTECs"'
GSE14365_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Aire is an important transcription regulator that mediates a role in central tolerance via promoting the promiscuous expression of tissue-specific antigens in the thymus. Although several mouse models of Aire-deficiency have been described, none has analysed the phenotype induced by a mutation that emulates the common 13bp deletion in human APECED by disrupting the first PHD domain in exon 8. Aire-deficient mice with a corresponding mutation showed some disturbance of the medullary epithelial compartment, but at the phenotypic level their T cell compartment appeared relatively normal in the thymus and periphery. An increase in the number of activated T cells was evident, and autoantibodies against several organs were detected. At the histological level, lymphocytic infiltration of several organs indicated the development of autoimmunity, though symptoms were mild and quality of life for Aire-deficient mice appeared equivalent to wild-type littermates, with the exception of male infertility. Vbeta and CDR3 length analysis suggested that each Aire-deficient mouse developed it own polyclonal autoimmune repertoire. Finally, given the prevalence of candidiasis in APECED patients, we examined the control of infection with Candida albicans in Aire-deficient mice. No increase in disease susceptibility was found for either oral or systematic infection. These observations support the view that additional genetic and/or environmental factors contribute substantially to the overt nature of autoimmunity associated with Aire mutations, even for mutations identical to those found in humans with APECED."'
GSE14365_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Aire is an important transcription regulator that mediates a role in central tolerance via promoting the promiscuous expression of tissue-specific antigens in the thymus. Although several mouse models of Aire-deficiency have been described, none has analysed the phenotype induced by a mutation that emulates the common 13bp deletion in human APECED by disrupting the first PHD domain in exon 8. Aire-deficient mice with a corresponding mutation showed some disturbance of the medullary epithelial compartment, but at the phenotypic level their T cell compartment appeared relatively normal in the thymus and periphery. An increase in the number of activated T cells was evident, and autoantibodies against several organs were detected. At the histological level, lymphocytic infiltration of several organs indicated the development of autoimmunity, though symptoms were mild and quality of life for Aire-deficient mice appeared equivalent to wild-type littermates, with the exception of male infertility. Vbeta and CDR3 length analysis suggested that each Aire-deficient mouse developed it own polyclonal autoimmune repertoire. Finally, given the prevalence of candidiasis in APECED patients, we examined the control of infection with Candida albicans in Aire-deficient mice. No increase in disease susceptibility was found for either oral or systematic infection. These observations support the view that additional genetic and/or environmental factors contribute substantially to the overt nature of autoimmunity associated with Aire mutations, even for mutations identical to those found in humans with APECED."'
GSE14365_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"In this experiment there are 5 samples altogether which consist of two biological replicates of Aire knock-out mTECs and 3 biological replicates of wild type mTECs."'
GSE14395_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gender-specific gene repression of PPAR-alpha KO mice in liver and heart"'
GSE14395_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Most metabolic studies are conducted in male animals; thus, the molecular mechanism controlling gender-specific pathways has been neglected, including sex-dependent responses to peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). Here we show that PPARalpha has broad female-dependent repressive actions on hepatic genes involved in steroid metabolism and inflammation. In males, this effect is reproduced by the administration of synthetic PPARalpha ligand. Using the steroid hydroxylase gene Cyp7b1 as a model, we elucidated the molecular mechanism of this PPARalpha-dependent repression. Initial sumoylation of the ligand-binding domain of PPARalpha triggers the interaction of PPARalpha with the GA-binding protein alpha bound to the target promoter. Histone deacetylase is then recruited, and histones and adjacent Sp1-binding site are methylated. These events result in the loss of Sp1-stimulated expression, and thus the down-regulation of Cyp7b1. Physiologically, this repression confers protection against estrogen-induced intrahepatic cholestasis, paving the way for a novel therapy against the most common hepatic disease during pregnancy."'
GSE14395_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profile difference between male and female PPARalpha wild-type and knock-out mice in liver and heart (3 pools of 4 animals in each group). Wild-type (12 males and 12 females) and knock-out PPARalpha SV129 mice (12 males and 12 females) approximately 10 to 12 weeks of age were killed at ZT14 and their livers and hearts quickly removed and frozen."'
GSE14411_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in b1-integrin wild-type and knockout mouse heart"'
GSE14411_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Growth and expansion of ventricular chambers is essential during cardiogenesis and is achieved by proliferation of cardiac progenitors that are not fully differentiated. Disruption of this process can lead to prenatal lethality. In contrast, adult cardiomyocytes achieve growth through hypertrophy rather than hyperplasia. Although epicardial-derived signals may contribute to the proliferative process in myocytes, the factors and cell types responsible for development of the ventricular myocardial thickness are unclear. Moreover, the function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts, derived from epicardium, and their secreted factors are largely unknown. Using a novel co-culture system, we found that embryonic cardiac fibroblasts induced proliferation of cardiomyocytes, in contrast to adult cardiac fibroblasts that promoted myocyte hypertrophy. We identified fibronectin, collagen and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor as embryonic cardiac fibroblast-specific signals that collaboratively promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation in a paracrine fashion. b1 integrin was required for this proliferative response, and ventricular cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of b1 integrin in mice resulted in reduced myocardial proliferation and impaired ventricular compaction. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized paracrine function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts in regulating cardiomyocyte proliferation."'
GSE14411_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"To investigate the mechanisms responsible for the abnormalities in b1 integrin mutant mice, we performed mRNA expression microarray analyses of E12.5 wild-type and mutant hearts, well before any obvious dysfunction. RNA was isolated from wild-type and mutant hearts, and arrays were performed using Affymetrix mouse Gene 1.0 ST arrays. Analysis was performed on three biological replicates of WT and KO mouse hearts."'
GSE14412_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Growth and expansion of ventricular chambers is essential during cardiogenesis and is achieved by proliferation of cardiac progenitors that are not fully differentiated. Disruption of this process can lead to prenatal lethality. In contrast, adult cardiomyocytes achieve growth through hypertrophy rather than hyperplasia. Although epicardial-derived signals may contribute to the proliferative process in myocytes, the factors and cell types responsible for development of the ventricular myocardial thickness are unclear. Moreover, the function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts, derived from epicardium, and their secreted factors are largely unknown. Using a novel co-culture system, we found that embryonic cardiac fibroblasts induced proliferation of cardiomyocytes, in contrast to adult cardiac fibroblasts that promoted myocyte hypertrophy. We identified fibronectin, collagen and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor as embryonic cardiac fibroblast-specific signals that collaboratively promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation in a paracrine fashion. b1 integrin was required for this proliferative response, and ventricular cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of b1 integrin in mice resulted in reduced myocardial proliferation and impaired ventricular compaction. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized paracrine function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts in regulating cardiomyocyte proliferation."'
GSE14414_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Growth and expansion of ventricular chambers is essential during cardiogenesis and is achieved by proliferation of cardiac progenitors that are not fully differentiated. Disruption of this process can lead to prenatal lethality. In contrast, adult cardiomyocytes achieve growth through hypertrophy rather than hyperplasia. Although epicardial-derived signals may contribute to the proliferative process in myocytes, the factors and cell types responsible for development of the ventricular myocardial thickness are unclear. Moreover, the function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts, derived from epicardium, and their secreted factors are largely unknown. Using a novel co-culture system, we found that embryonic cardiac fibroblasts induced proliferation of cardiomyocytes, in contrast to adult cardiac fibroblasts that promoted myocyte hypertrophy. We identified fibronectin, collagen and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor as embryonic cardiac fibroblast-specific signals that collaboratively promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation in a paracrine fashion. b1 integrin was required for this proliferative response, and ventricular cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of b1 integrin in mice resulted in reduced myocardial proliferation and impaired ventricular compaction. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized paracrine function of embryonic cardiac fibroblasts in regulating cardiomyocyte proliferation."'
GSE14430_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Glis3 mutant mice (Glis3zf/zf) die within the first week after birth due to overt diabetes, evidenced by hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia. Histopathological analysis showed that Glis3zf/zf mice develop a pancreatic phenotype with a dramatic loss of beta- (insulin) and delta- (somatostatin) cells contrasting a smaller relative loss of alpha- (glucagon), PP- (pancreatic polypeptide), and epsilon- (ghrelin) cells. Glis3zf/zf mice develop ductal cysts with decreased number of primary cilia, while the acini are not significantly affected. Gene expression profiling by microarray analysis demonstrated that the expression of terminal hormonal genes and several transcription factors important in endocrine development were significantly deregulated in Glis3zf/zf mice. During pancreatic development, Glis3 mRNA expression is induced during the secondary transition, a stage of cell lineage specification and extensive patterning. Changes in pancreatic development of Glis3zf/zf mice are noted during and after this stage; the number of cells staining positively for Ngn3, MafA, or Pdx-1 is greatly diminished. These observations indicate that Glis3 plays a key role in the development of mature beta cells."'
GSE14454_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"In a variety of organisms, including mammals, caloric restriction improves metabolic status and lowers the incidence of chronic-degenerative diseases, ultimately leading to increased lifespan. Here we show that knockout mice for Eps8, a regulator of actin dynamics, display reduced bodyweight, partial resistance to age- or diet-induced obesity, and overall improved metabolic status. We present evidence that these phenotypes, which are associated to increased lifespan in the Eps8 null mice, are due to caloric restriction. This, in turn, is caused by reduced intestinal fat absorption, due to altered morphogenesis of microvilli in intestinal enterocytes. In the nematode, genetic removal of Eps8, causes a microvillar phenotype, indistinguishable from that observed in mice, which leads to early larval lethality. By exploiting the nematode model system, we demonstrate here that the actin bundling activity of Eps8 is indispensable for viability and proper intestinal morphogenesis. This result links a precise molecular function of Eps8 to proper microvillar morphogenesis, and therefore to the phenotype of Eps8-null mice. Our results implicate actin dynamics in individual variations in bodyweight, metabolic status and longevity."'
GSE14454_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"In a variety of organisms, including mammals, caloric restriction improves metabolic status and lowers the incidence of chronic-degenerative diseases, ultimately leading to increased lifespan. Here we show that knockout mice for Eps8, a regulator of actin dynamics, display reduced bodyweight, partial resistance to age- or diet-induced obesity, and overall improved metabolic status. We present evidence that these phenotypes, which are associated to increased lifespan in the Eps8 null mice, are due to caloric restriction. This, in turn, is caused by reduced intestinal fat absorption, due to altered morphogenesis of microvilli in intestinal enterocytes. In the nematode, genetic removal of Eps8, causes a microvillar phenotype, indistinguishable from that observed in mice, which leads to early larval lethality. By exploiting the nematode model system, we demonstrate here that the actin bundling activity of Eps8 is indispensable for viability and proper intestinal morphogenesis. This result links a precise molecular function of Eps8 to proper microvillar morphogenesis, and therefore to the phenotype of Eps8-null mice. Our results implicate actin dynamics in individual variations in bodyweight, metabolic status and longevity."'
GSE14457-GPL2881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Rb deletion in mammary stem/progenitor epithelium induces tumors with features of luminal-B or basal-like breast cancer"'
GSE14457-GPL2881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor, Rb, is implicated in luminal-B and basal-like breast carcinomas, yet its effect on mammary gland development and causal role in breast cancer subtypes remain undefined. Here we show that conditional deletion of Rb in mouse mammary epithelium led to expansion of the stem/progenitor cells and to focal acinar hyperplasia with squamous metaplasia. These uniform lesions progressed into histologically diverse, transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and adenosquamous carcinomas with features of luminal-B or basal-like carcinomas. A subset of basal-like but none of the luminal-B tumors expressed mutant p53. These results demonstrate a causative role for Rb in the etiology of breast cancer subtypes and implicate p53 status as a determinant of tumor phenotype after Rb loss."'
GSE14457-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Rb deletion in mammary stem/progenitor epithelium induces tumors with features of luminal-B or basal-like breast cancer"'
GSE14457-GPL4092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor, Rb, is implicated in luminal-B and basal-like breast carcinomas, yet its effect on mammary gland development and causal role in breast cancer subtypes remain undefined. Here we show that conditional deletion of Rb in mouse mammary epithelium led to expansion of the stem/progenitor cells and to focal acinar hyperplasia with squamous metaplasia. These uniform lesions progressed into histologically diverse, transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and adenosquamous carcinomas with features of luminal-B or basal-like carcinomas. A subset of basal-like but none of the luminal-B tumors expressed mutant p53. These results demonstrate a causative role for Rb in the etiology of breast cancer subtypes and implicate p53 status as a determinant of tumor phenotype after Rb loss."'
GSE14457-GPL891_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Rb deletion in mammary stem/progenitor epithelium induces tumors with features of luminal-B or basal-like breast cancer"'
GSE14457-GPL891_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor, Rb, is implicated in luminal-B and basal-like breast carcinomas, yet its effect on mammary gland development and causal role in breast cancer subtypes remain undefined. Here we show that conditional deletion of Rb in mouse mammary epithelium led to expansion of the stem/progenitor cells and to focal acinar hyperplasia with squamous metaplasia. These uniform lesions progressed into histologically diverse, transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and adenosquamous carcinomas with features of luminal-B or basal-like carcinomas. A subset of basal-like but none of the luminal-B tumors expressed mutant p53. These results demonstrate a causative role for Rb in the etiology of breast cancer subtypes and implicate p53 status as a determinant of tumor phenotype after Rb loss."'
GSE14478_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The bHLH transcription factor stem cell leukemia gene (Scl) is a master regulator for hematopoiesis essential for hematopoietic specification and proper differentiation of the erythroid and megakaryocyte lineages. However, the critical downstream targets of Scl remain undefined. Here, we identified a novel Scl target gene, transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 C (Mef2C) from Sclfl/fl fetal liver progenitor cell lines. Analysis of Mef2C-/- embryos showed that Mef2C, in contrast to Scl, is not essential for specification into primitive or definitive hematopoietic lineages. However, adult VavCre+Mef2Cfl/fl mice exhibited platelet defects similar to those observed in Scl deficient mice. The platelet counts were reduced, while platelet size was increased and the platelet shape and granularity was altered. Furthermore, megakaryopoiesis was severely impaired in vitro. ChIP-on-chip analysis revealed that Mef2C is directly regulated by Scl in megakaryocytic cells, but not in erythroid cells. In addition, an Scl independent requirement for Mef2C in B-lymphoid homeostasis was observed in Mef2C-deficient mice, characterized as severe age-dependent reduction of specific B cell progenitor populations reminiscent of premature aging. In summary, this work identifies Mef2C as an integral member of hematopoietic transcription factors with distinct upstream regulatory mechanisms and functional requirements in megakaryocyte and B-lymphoid lineages."'
GSE14512_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Muscle ring finger (MuRF) proteins have been implicated in the transmission of mechanical forces to nuclear cell signaling pathways through their association with the sarcomere.  We recently reported that MuRF1, but not MuRF2, regulated pathologic cardiac hypertrophy in vivo.  This was surprising since MuRF1 and MuRF2 interact redundantly with sarcomeric proteins in yeast two hybrid studies, and form both homo- and hetero-dimers with each other.  To determine if MuRF1 and MuRF2 were functionally redundant during development, we created mice lacking either 3 or 4 of the MuRF1 and MuRF2 alleles and compared them functionally.  Surprisingly, only mice missing all four MuRF1 and MuRF2 alleles (MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/-) developed a spontaneous hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - mice that were null for one of the genes, but heterozygous for the other (i.e. MuRF1-/-//MuRF2+/- or MuRF1+/-//MuRF2-/-) were phenotypically identical to wild type mice.  Electron microscopy of the hearts of MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/-(MuRF1/MuRF2 DN) mice identified altered Z disc and M line architecture, and a distinct swelling of mitochondria. MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/- mouse hearts displayed increased expression of genes associated with fetal cardiac metabolism, including smooth muscle actin and b myosin heavy chain, suggesting that the cardiac hypertrophy seen in these mice was associated with a reversion to a fetal gene program. Despite our prediction that we would also see an increase in glucose compared to fatty acid oxidation (another trait of fetal cardiac metabolism) we saw that MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/- heart homogenates oxidized significantly less glucose compared to controls, suggesting an important role for MuRF1 and MuRF2 in the regulation of glucose metabolism in vivo. This study identifies a previously unreported redundancy in the function of MuRF proteins in normal cardiac development."'
GSE14512_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Muscle ring finger (MuRF) proteins have been implicated in the transmission of mechanical forces to nuclear cell signaling pathways through their association with the sarcomere.  We recently reported that MuRF1, but not MuRF2, regulated pathologic cardiac hypertrophy in vivo.  This was surprising since MuRF1 and MuRF2 interact redundantly with sarcomeric proteins in yeast two hybrid studies, and form both homo- and hetero-dimers with each other.  To determine if MuRF1 and MuRF2 were functionally redundant during development, we created mice lacking either 3 or 4 of the MuRF1 and MuRF2 alleles and compared them functionally.  Surprisingly, only mice missing all four MuRF1 and MuRF2 alleles (MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/-) developed a spontaneous hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - mice that were null for one of the genes, but heterozygous for the other (i.e. MuRF1-/-//MuRF2+/- or MuRF1+/-//MuRF2-/-) were phenotypically identical to wild type mice.  Electron microscopy of the hearts of MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/-(MuRF1/MuRF2 DN) mice identified altered Z disc and M line architecture, and a distinct swelling of mitochondria. MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/- mouse hearts displayed increased expression of genes associated with fetal cardiac metabolism, including smooth muscle actin and b myosin heavy chain, suggesting that the cardiac hypertrophy seen in these mice was associated with a reversion to a fetal gene program. Despite our prediction that we would also see an increase in glucose compared to fatty acid oxidation (another trait of fetal cardiac metabolism) we saw that MuRF1-/-//MuRF2-/- heart homogenates oxidized significantly less glucose compared to controls, suggesting an important role for MuRF1 and MuRF2 in the regulation of glucose metabolism in vivo. This study identifies a previously unreported redundancy in the function of MuRF proteins in normal cardiac development."'
GSE14525_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Acute lung injury (ALI), a major cause of acute respiratory failure with high morbidity and mortality, isare characterized by significant pulmonary inflammation and both alveolar and vascular barriers dysfunction.  In Pprior studies have highlighted the role of nonmuscle myosin light chain kinase (nmMLCK) as an essential element of inflammatory response with MYLK polymorphisms associated withwhich alters ALI susceptibility. In the present study we sought to further define nmMLCK in acute inflammatory syndromes and examined We examined nmMLCK as a molecular target involved in increase of lung epithelial and endothelial barrier permeability. We utilized in two muirine models of inflammatory lung injury: intratracheal administration of endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 2.5 mg/kg) and VILI (ventilator-induced lung injury, tidal volume 40ml/kg).  Two complementary strategies were used to reduce nmMLCK activity or expression. We found that membrane permeant oligopeptide, PIK, inhibited MLC kinase activity in vitro in aand displayed dose-dependent mannerinhibition of MLC kinase activity.. Intravenous delivery of PIK significantly attenuated LPS-induced lung inflammation reflected by decreasing accumulation of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) albumin (~ 50% reduction) as well as reduction in BAL cells, tissue MPO activity and tissue albumin in lung homogenates. A second regulatory approach explored targeting murine nmMLCK by administration of siRNA (5mg/kg) 3 days prior to LPS challenge. siRNA decreased of nmMLCK expression in lungs (~ 70% reduction) and resulted in significant attenuation LPS-induced lung inflammation (~ 40% reduction) as reflected by decreased BAL protein level and BAL cells. For targeting pulmonary vessels nmMLCK we used ACE antibody-conjugated liposomes with nmMLCK siRNA in murine ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) model. Protein silencing of nmMLCK was evident by immunohistochemical analysis with a decrease in relative intensity of fluorescence in lung vessels compared with control animals. Furthermore, the inhibition of nmMLCK expression by siRNA in vessels significantly attenuated VILI lung injury as reflected by decreased BAL protein level (40% reduction). Finally, MLCK knockout mice were significantly protected (reduced BAL protein and albumin) when exposed to a model of severe VILI (4h, 40ml/kg tidal volume). Conclusion: the MLCK gene KO and chemical biology results indicate that the targeting of nmMLCK in vivo attenuate the severity of LPS-induced or VILI acute lung injury."'
GSE14525_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Acute lung injury (ALI), a major cause of acute respiratory failure with high morbidity and mortality, isare characterized by significant pulmonary inflammation and both alveolar and vascular barriers dysfunction.  In Pprior studies have highlighted the role of nonmuscle myosin light chain kinase (nmMLCK) as an essential element of inflammatory response with MYLK polymorphisms associated withwhich alters ALI susceptibility. In the present study we sought to further define nmMLCK in acute inflammatory syndromes and examined We examined nmMLCK as a molecular target involved in increase of lung epithelial and endothelial barrier permeability. We utilized in two muirine models of inflammatory lung injury: intratracheal administration of endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 2.5 mg/kg) and VILI (ventilator-induced lung injury, tidal volume 40ml/kg).  Two complementary strategies were used to reduce nmMLCK activity or expression. We found that membrane permeant oligopeptide, PIK, inhibited MLC kinase activity in vitro in aand displayed dose-dependent mannerinhibition of MLC kinase activity.. Intravenous delivery of PIK significantly attenuated LPS-induced lung inflammation reflected by decreasing accumulation of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) albumin (~ 50% reduction) as well as reduction in BAL cells, tissue MPO activity and tissue albumin in lung homogenates. A second regulatory approach explored targeting murine nmMLCK by administration of siRNA (5mg/kg) 3 days prior to LPS challenge. siRNA decreased of nmMLCK expression in lungs (~ 70% reduction) and resulted in significant attenuation LPS-induced lung inflammation (~ 40% reduction) as reflected by decreased BAL protein level and BAL cells. For targeting pulmonary vessels nmMLCK we used ACE antibody-conjugated liposomes with nmMLCK siRNA in murine ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) model. Protein silencing of nmMLCK was evident by immunohistochemical analysis with a decrease in relative intensity of fluorescence in lung vessels compared with control animals. Furthermore, the inhibition of nmMLCK expression by siRNA in vessels significantly attenuated VILI lung injury as reflected by decreased BAL protein level (40% reduction). Finally, MLCK knockout mice were significantly protected (reduced BAL protein and albumin) when exposed to a model of severe VILI (4h, 40ml/kg tidal volume). Conclusion: the MLCK gene KO and chemical biology results indicate that the targeting of nmMLCK in vivo attenuate the severity of LPS-induced or VILI acute lung injury."'
GSE14525_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Acute lung injury (ALI), a major cause of acute respiratory failure with high morbidity and mortality, isare characterized by significant pulmonary inflammation and both alveolar and vascular barriers dysfunction.  In Pprior studies have highlighted the role of nonmuscle myosin light chain kinase (nmMLCK) as an essential element of inflammatory response with MYLK polymorphisms associated withwhich alters ALI susceptibility. In the present study we sought to further define nmMLCK in acute inflammatory syndromes and examined We examined nmMLCK as a molecular target involved in increase of lung epithelial and endothelial barrier permeability. We utilized in two muirine models of inflammatory lung injury: intratracheal administration of endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 2.5 mg/kg) and VILI (ventilator-induced lung injury, tidal volume 40ml/kg).  Two complementary strategies were used to reduce nmMLCK activity or expression. We found that membrane permeant oligopeptide, PIK, inhibited MLC kinase activity in vitro in aand displayed dose-dependent mannerinhibition of MLC kinase activity.. Intravenous delivery of PIK significantly attenuated LPS-induced lung inflammation reflected by decreasing accumulation of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) albumin (~ 50% reduction) as well as reduction in BAL cells, tissue MPO activity and tissue albumin in lung homogenates. A second regulatory approach explored targeting murine nmMLCK by administration of siRNA (5mg/kg) 3 days prior to LPS challenge. siRNA decreased of nmMLCK expression in lungs (~ 70% reduction) and resulted in significant attenuation LPS-induced lung inflammation (~ 40% reduction) as reflected by decreased BAL protein level and BAL cells. For targeting pulmonary vessels nmMLCK we used ACE antibody-conjugated liposomes with nmMLCK siRNA in murine ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) model. Protein silencing of nmMLCK was evident by immunohistochemical analysis with a decrease in relative intensity of fluorescence in lung vessels compared with control animals. Furthermore, the inhibition of nmMLCK expression by siRNA in vessels significantly attenuated VILI lung injury as reflected by decreased BAL protein level (40% reduction). Finally, MLCK knockout mice were significantly protected (reduced BAL protein and albumin) when exposed to a model of severe VILI (4h, 40ml/kg tidal volume). Conclusion: the MLCK gene KO and chemical biology results indicate that the targeting of nmMLCK in vivo attenuate the severity of LPS-induced or VILI acute lung injury."'
GSE14525_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Acute lung injury (ALI), a major cause of acute respiratory failure with high morbidity and mortality, isare characterized by significant pulmonary inflammation and both alveolar and vascular barriers dysfunction.  In Pprior studies have highlighted the role of nonmuscle myosin light chain kinase (nmMLCK) as an essential element of inflammatory response with MYLK polymorphisms associated withwhich alters ALI susceptibility. In the present study we sought to further define nmMLCK in acute inflammatory syndromes and examined We examined nmMLCK as a molecular target involved in increase of lung epithelial and endothelial barrier permeability. We utilized in two muirine models of inflammatory lung injury: intratracheal administration of endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 2.5 mg/kg) and VILI (ventilator-induced lung injury, tidal volume 40ml/kg).  Two complementary strategies were used to reduce nmMLCK activity or expression. We found that membrane permeant oligopeptide, PIK, inhibited MLC kinase activity in vitro in aand displayed dose-dependent mannerinhibition of MLC kinase activity.. Intravenous delivery of PIK significantly attenuated LPS-induced lung inflammation reflected by decreasing accumulation of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) albumin (~ 50% reduction) as well as reduction in BAL cells, tissue MPO activity and tissue albumin in lung homogenates. A second regulatory approach explored targeting murine nmMLCK by administration of siRNA (5mg/kg) 3 days prior to LPS challenge. siRNA decreased of nmMLCK expression in lungs (~ 70% reduction) and resulted in significant attenuation LPS-induced lung inflammation (~ 40% reduction) as reflected by decreased BAL protein level and BAL cells. For targeting pulmonary vessels nmMLCK we used ACE antibody-conjugated liposomes with nmMLCK siRNA in murine ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) model. Protein silencing of nmMLCK was evident by immunohistochemical analysis with a decrease in relative intensity of fluorescence in lung vessels compared with control animals. Furthermore, the inhibition of nmMLCK expression by siRNA in vessels significantly attenuated VILI lung injury as reflected by decreased BAL protein level (40% reduction). Finally, MLCK knockout mice were significantly protected (reduced BAL protein and albumin) when exposed to a model of severe VILI (4h, 40ml/kg tidal volume). Conclusion: the MLCK gene KO and chemical biology results indicate that the targeting of nmMLCK in vivo attenuate the severity of LPS-induced or VILI acute lung injury."'
GSE14539_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Surgical resection is the preferred treatment for Hepatocellular carcinoma; however, it induces tumor recurrence. Our objective was to understand the molecular mechanisms linking liver regeneration under chronic-inflammation to tumorigenesis. Mdr2-knockout mice, a model of inflammation-associated cancer, underwent partial-hepatectomy which led to enhanced hepatocarcinogenesis. Yet, liver regeneration in these mice was severely attenuated. We demonstrate the activation of the DNA damage response machinery and altered genomic instability during early liver inflammatory stages resulting in hepatocyte apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest, and suggest their involvement in tumor recurrence subsequent to partial hepatectomy. We propose that under the regenerative proliferative stress induced by liver resection, the genomic unstable hepatocytes generated during chronic-inflammation, escape apoptosis and reenter the cell-cycle, triggering the enhanced tumorigenesis"'
GSE14539_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from liver samples of 9-month-old Mdr2-/- and control mice obtained on days 0 (the removed lobe), 2 and 6 following PHx. Samples of d0 were obtained from the same mice that were sacrificed on later days. As we were concerned by the variability in the KO group 6 samples were obtained for d0. All other time points and groups contained 3 samples each."'
GSE14549_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Werner syndrome (WS) is a rare disorder characterized by the premature onset of a number of age-related diseases. The gene responsible for WS is believed to be involved in different aspects of transcription, replication, and/or DNA repair. We generated a mouse model with a deletion in the helicase domain of the murine WRN homologue that recapitulates most of the WS phenotypes including an abnormal hyaluronic acid excretion, higher reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, increased genomic instability and cancer incidence resulting in a 10-15% decreased life span expectancy. In addition, WS patients and Wrn mutant mice show hallmarks of a metabolic syndrome including premature visceral obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, insulin-resistant diabetes type 2 and associated cardiovascular diseases. In this study, we compared the expression profile of liver tissues from 9 months old Wrn mutant and wild type animals. Gene set enrichment analysis of the microarray data indicated that Wrn mutant mice exhibited down-regulation of genes normally decreased in several transgenic mouse models of hepatoma and during caloric restriction. Wrn mutant mice also altered the expression of genes involved in inflammation as well as in glutathione and xenobiotic metabolisms. These results indicate that Wrn mutant mice respond to the observed oxidative stress by altering the necessary pathways to survive. Vitamin C supplementation rescued the life span expectancy of Wrn mutant mice and reversed several age-related abnormalities in adipose, cardiac, and liver tissues, genomic integrity and inflammatory status. Finally, gene set enrichment analyses revealed that vitamin C decreased genes normally up regulated in human WS fibroblasts and cancers and it increased genes involved in tissue injury response and adipocyte dedifferentiation in obese mice."'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression data of murine GPI-deficient bone marrow cells in a mouse model of targeted Pig-a deletion"'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Expression data of murine GPI-deficient bone marrow cells in a mouse model of targeted Pig-a deletion"'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Somatic mutation in the X-linked phosphatidylinositol glycan class A (PIG-A) gene causes glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor deficiency in humans with Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH). Clinically, patients with PNH have intravascular hemolysis, venous thrombosis and bone marrow failure. We produced a conditional Pig-a knock-out mouse model specifically inactivating the Pig-a gene in hematopoietic cells to study the role of PIG-A deficiency in PNH pathophysiology. We used Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430 2.0 chips to investigate the gene expression pattern in the mouse model of targeted Pig-a deletion."'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Somatic mutation in the X-linked phosphatidylinositol glycan class A (PIG-A) gene causes glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor deficiency in humans with Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH). Clinically, patients with PNH have intravascular hemolysis, venous thrombosis and bone marrow failure. We produced a conditional Pig-a knock-out mouse model specifically inactivating the Pig-a gene in hematopoietic cells to study the role of PIG-A deficiency in PNH pathophysiology. We used Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430 2.0 chips to investigate the gene expression pattern in the mouse model of targeted Pig-a deletion."'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene expression comparison between untransplanted and transplanted GPI-deficient bone marrow cells"'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"We performed microarray analysis on 3 pools of sorted GPI-deficient (GPI-) and GPI normal (GPI+) bone marrow cells derived from the same Pig-a knock-out animals, and identified 1275/669 genes of the 45,101 transcripts potentially available for screening using 2-fold change, <10% false discovery rate (FDR) and percentage of present calls as selection criteria. The major representative genes belong to the category of immune response. We tested whether the molecular differences between GPI- and GPI+  bone marrow cells could be preserved when GPI- cells were transplanted in lethally-irradiated wild type mice (C57BL/6). Microarray analysis was performed using sorted bone marrow cells from 4 animals transplanted with GPI-deficient bone marrow cells (T-GPI-) from Pig-a knock-out donors, 3 animals transplanted with GPI-normal bone marrow cells from C57BL/6 donors (T-GPI+), and  GPI-normal bone marrow cells from 4  wild-type C57BL/6 mice (WT-GPI+). We found 296 probesets with  2-fold change cutoff, of which T-GPI- cells had 145 up-regulated genes in comparison to WT-GPI+ cells, and had 123 genes differentially expressed when compared to T-GPI+ cells. The gene expression of the GPI-deficient cells was very similar between the two sets of microarray experiments affirming the maintenance of the phenotype before and after bone marrow cell transplantation."'
GSE14561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"We performed microarray analysis on 3 pools of sorted GPI-deficient (GPI-) and GPI normal (GPI+) bone marrow cells derived from the same Pig-a knock-out animals, and identified 1275/669 genes of the 45,101 transcripts potentially available for screening using 2-fold change, <10% false discovery rate (FDR) and percentage of present calls as selection criteria. The major representative genes belong to the category of immune response. We tested whether the molecular differences between GPI- and GPI+  bone marrow cells could be preserved when GPI- cells were transplanted in lethally-irradiated wild type mice (C57BL/6). Microarray analysis was performed using sorted bone marrow cells from 4 animals transplanted with GPI-deficient bone marrow cells (T-GPI-) from Pig-a knock-out donors, 3 animals transplanted with GPI-normal bone marrow cells from C57BL/6 donors (T-GPI+), and  GPI-normal bone marrow cells from 4  wild-type C57BL/6 mice (WT-GPI+). We found 296 probesets with  2-fold change cutoff, of which T-GPI- cells had 145 up-regulated genes in comparison to WT-GPI+ cells, and had 123 genes differentially expressed when compared to T-GPI+ cells. The gene expression of the GPI-deficient cells was very similar between the two sets of microarray experiments affirming the maintenance of the phenotype before and after bone marrow cell transplantation."'
GSE14585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The non-coding Xist RNA triggers silencing of one of the two female X chromosomes during X inactivation in mammals. Gene silencing by Xist is restricted to special developmental contexts found in cells of the early embryo and specific hematopoietic precursors. The absence of critical silencing factors might explain why Xist cannot silence outside these contexts. Here, we show that Xist can also initiate silencing in a lymphoma model. Using the tumor context we identify the special AT rich binding protein SATB1 as an essential silencing factor. We show that loss of SATB1 in tumor cells abrogates the silencing function of Xist. In normal female lymphocytes Xist localizes along SATB1 filaments and, importantly, forced Xist expression can relocalize SATB1 into the Xist cluster. This reciprocal influence on localization suggests a molecular interaction between Xist and SATB1. SATB1 and its close homologue SATB2 are expressed during the initiation window for X inactivation in embryonic stem cells and are recruited to surround the Xist cluster. Furthermore, ectopic expression SATB1 or SATB2 enables gene silencing by Xist in embryonic fibroblasts, which normally do not provide an initiation context. Thus, SATB1 functions as a crucial initiation factor and may act to organize genes for silencing by Xist during the initiation of X inactivation."'
GSE14585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The non-coding Xist RNA triggers silencing of one of the two female X chromosomes during X inactivation in mammals. Gene silencing by Xist is restricted to special developmental contexts found in cells of the early embryo and specific hematopoietic precursors. The absence of critical silencing factors might explain why Xist cannot silence outside these contexts. Here, we show that Xist can also initiate silencing in a lymphoma model. Using the tumor context we identify the special AT rich binding protein SATB1 as an essential silencing factor. We show that loss of SATB1 in tumor cells abrogates the silencing function of Xist. In normal female lymphocytes Xist localizes along SATB1 filaments and, importantly, forced Xist expression can relocalize SATB1 into the Xist cluster. This reciprocal influence on localization suggests a molecular interaction between Xist and SATB1. SATB1 and its close homologue SATB2 are expressed during the initiation window for X inactivation in embryonic stem cells and are recruited to surround the Xist cluster. Furthermore, ectopic expression SATB1 or SATB2 enables gene silencing by Xist in embryonic fibroblasts, which normally do not provide an initiation context. Thus, SATB1 functions as a crucial initiation factor and may act to organize genes for silencing by Xist during the initiation of X inactivation."'
GSE14585_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The non-coding Xist RNA triggers silencing of one of the two female X chromosomes during X inactivation in mammals. Gene silencing by Xist is restricted to special developmental contexts found in cells of the early embryo and specific hematopoietic precursors. The absence of critical silencing factors might explain why Xist cannot silence outside these contexts. Here, we show that Xist can also initiate silencing in a lymphoma model. Using the tumor context we identify the special AT rich binding protein SATB1 as an essential silencing factor. We show that loss of SATB1 in tumor cells abrogates the silencing function of Xist. In normal female lymphocytes Xist localizes along SATB1 filaments and, importantly, forced Xist expression can relocalize SATB1 into the Xist cluster. This reciprocal influence on localization suggests a molecular interaction between Xist and SATB1. SATB1 and its close homologue SATB2 are expressed during the initiation window for X inactivation in embryonic stem cells and are recruited to surround the Xist cluster. Furthermore, ectopic expression SATB1 or SATB2 enables gene silencing by Xist in embryonic fibroblasts, which normally do not provide an initiation context. Thus, SATB1 functions as a crucial initiation factor and may act to organize genes for silencing by Xist during the initiation of X inactivation."'
GSE14605_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"gene expression profiling from two single wild-type oocytes, two single Dicer knockout oocyte, and one single Ago2 knockout oocyte"'
GSE14645_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from proximal colons of cSHMT mutant, heterozygous, and wild-type mice raised on a folate-deficient diet. Three colon samples were isolated from each genotype to provide biological replication.  Mutant and heterozygous data were then compared pair-wise against wild-type expression data."'
GSE14672_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"GM-CSF controls the development of granulocytes but little is known about the contribution of the downstream mediating transcription factor STAT5A/B.  To elucidate this pathway, we generated mice lacking the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells.  Peripheral neutrophils were decreased and administration of 5-FU and GM-CSF failed to induce granulopoiesis in Stat5a/b-mutant mice. GMPs were isolated and cultured with GM-CSF.  Both the number and size of STAT5A/B-null colonies were reduced and GM-CSF-induced survival of mature STAT5A/B-null neutrophils was impaired.  Time-lapse cinematography and single cell tracking of GMPs revealed that STAT5A/B-null cells were characterized by a longer generation time and an increased cell death.  Gene expression profiling experiments suggested that STAT5A/B directs GM-CSF signaling through the regulation of cell survival genes."'
GSE14672_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"GM-CSF controls the development of granulocytes but little is known about the contribution of the downstream mediating transcription factor STAT5A/B.  To elucidate this pathway, we generated mice lacking the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells.  Peripheral neutrophils were decreased and administration of 5-FU and GM-CSF failed to induce granulopoiesis in Stat5a/b-mutant mice. GMPs were isolated and cultured with GM-CSF.  Both the number and size of STAT5A/B-null colonies were reduced and GM-CSF-induced survival of mature STAT5A/B-null neutrophils was impaired.  Time-lapse cinematography and single cell tracking of GMPs revealed that STAT5A/B-null cells were characterized by a longer generation time and an increased cell death.  Gene expression profiling experiments suggested that STAT5A/B directs GM-CSF signaling through the regulation of cell survival genes."'
GSE14672_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mice lacking or with  the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells, which were treated w/o GMP"'
GSE14691-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL1261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"All experiments involved generating expression profiles of quadriceps muscles taken from mice. Experiments 1 and 2: samples were hybridized to Moe430A and Moe430B arrays. Experiment 3: samples were hybridized to Mouse Genome 430 2.0 array. Experiment 1 compared expression profiles of wild-type mice (FVB strain) with two lines, designated 20b and 41, of CUGexp transgenic mice with FVB background. Experiment 2 compared expression profiles of Clcn1-null (myotonic) mice with the wild-type background strain (BALB). Experiment 3 compared expression profiles of Mbnl1-null mice with the wild-type background strain (FVB)."'
GSE14691-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL339_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"All experiments involved generating expression profiles of quadriceps muscles taken from mice. Experiments 1 and 2: samples were hybridized to Moe430A and Moe430B arrays. Experiment 3: samples were hybridized to Mouse Genome 430 2.0 array. Experiment 1 compared expression profiles of wild-type mice (FVB strain) with two lines, designated 20b and 41, of CUGexp transgenic mice with FVB background. Experiment 2 compared expression profiles of Clcn1-null (myotonic) mice with the wild-type background strain (BALB). Experiment 3 compared expression profiles of Mbnl1-null mice with the wild-type background strain (FVB)."'
GSE14691-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an RNA dominant disease in which mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat (CUGexp) cause muscle dysfunction by interfering with biogenesis of other mRNAs. The toxic effects of mutant RNA are mediated partly through sequestration of splicing regulator Muscleblind-like 1 (Mbnl1), a protein that binds to CUGexp RNA. A gene that is prominently affected encodes chloride channel 1 (Clcn1), resulting in hyperexcitability of muscle (myotonia). To identify DM1-affected genes and study mechanisms for dysregulation, we performed global mRNA profiling in transgenic mice that express CUGexp RNA, as compared to Mbnl1 knockout and Clcn1 null mice. We found that the majority of changes induced by CUGexp RNA in skeletal muscle can be explained by reduced activity of Mbnl1, including many changes that are secondary to myotonia. The pathway most affected comprises genes involved in calcium signaling and homeostasis. Some effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression are caused by abnormal alternative splicing or downregulation of Mbnl1-interacting mRNAs. However, several of the most highly dysregulated genes showed altered transcription, as indicated by parallel changes of the corresponding premRNAs. These results support the idea that trans-dominant effects of CUGexp RNA on gene expression in this transgenic model may occur at the level of transcription, RNA processing, and mRNA decay, and are mediated mainly but not entirely through sequestration of Mbnl1."'
GSE14691-GPL340_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"All experiments involved generating expression profiles of quadriceps muscles taken from mice. Experiments 1 and 2: samples were hybridized to Moe430A and Moe430B arrays. Experiment 3: samples were hybridized to Mouse Genome 430 2.0 array. Experiment 1 compared expression profiles of wild-type mice (FVB strain) with two lines, designated 20b and 41, of CUGexp transgenic mice with FVB background. Experiment 2 compared expression profiles of Clcn1-null (myotonic) mice with the wild-type background strain (BALB). Experiment 3 compared expression profiles of Mbnl1-null mice with the wild-type background strain (FVB)."'
GSE14698_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Microarray Experiments for mice lacking or with  the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells that were treated w/o CMP"'
GSE14698_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"GM-CSF controls the development of granulocytes but little is known about the contribution of the downstream mediating transcription factor STAT5A/B.  To elucidate this pathway, we generated mice lacking the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells.  Peripheral neutrophils were decreased and administration of 5-FU and GM-CSF failed to induce granulopoiesis in Stat5a/b-mutant mice. CMPs were isolated and cultured with GM-CSF.  "'
GSE14698_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Microarray Experiments for mice lacking or with  the Stat5a and 5b genes in blood cells that were treated w/o CMP"'
GSE14699_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Peripheral tolerance induction is critical for the maintenance of self-tolerance and can be mediated by immunoregulatory T cells or by direct induction of T cell anergy or deletion. While the molecular processes underlying anergy have been extensively studied, little is known about the molecular basis for peripheral T cell deletion. Here, we determined the gene expression signature of peripheral CD8+ T cells undergoing deletional tolerance, relative to those undergoing immunogenic priming or lymphopenia-induced proliferation. From these data, we report the first detailed molecular signature of cells undergoing deletion."'
GSE14699_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Consistent with defective cytolysis, these cells exhibited deficiencies in granzyme up-regulation. Furthermore, they showed antigen-driven Bcl-2 down-regulation and early up-regulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim, consistent with the requirement of this BH3-only protein for peripheral T cell deletion. Bim up-regulation was paralleled by defective IL-7Ra chain re-expression, suggesting that Bim-dependent death may be triggered by loss of IL-7/IL-7R signaling. Finally, we observed parallels in molecular signatures between deletion and anergy suggesting that these tolerance pathways may not be as molecularly distinct as previously surmised."'
GSE14699_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Consistent with defective cytolysis, these cells exhibited deficiencies in granzyme up-regulation. Furthermore, they showed antigen-driven Bcl-2 down-regulation and early up-regulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim, consistent with the requirement of this BH3-only protein for peripheral T cell deletion. Bim up-regulation was paralleled by defective IL-7Ra chain re-expression, suggesting that Bim-dependent death may be triggered by loss of IL-7/IL-7R signaling. Finally, we observed parallels in molecular signatures between deletion and anergy suggesting that these tolerance pathways may not be as molecularly distinct as previously surmised."'
GSE14710_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"In skeletal muscle, STAT5a/b transcription factors are critical for normal postnatal growth, whole-animal glucose homeostasis, and local IGF-1 production.  These observations have led us to hypothesize that STAT5a/b are critical for maintenance of normal muscle mass and function.  To investigate this, mice with a skeletal muscle-specific deletion of the Stat5a/b genes (Stat5MKO) were used.  Stat5MKO mice displayed reduced muscle mass, altered fiber-type distribution and reduced activity.  On a molecular level, gene expression in skeletal muscle of Stat5MKO and control mice was analyzed by microarrays and real-time PCR, both in the presence and absence of growth hormone (GH) stimulation.  Several genes involved in muscle growth, fiber-type and metabolism were significantly changed.  Specifically in the quadriceps, a muscle almost exclusively composed of type II fibers, the absence of STAT5a/b led to increased expression of several genes associated with type I fibers and the de novo appearance of type I fibers.  Additionally, it is shown here that expression of the androgen receptor gene (Ar) is controlled by GH through STAT5a/b.  The link between STAT5a/b and Ar gene is likely through direct transcriptional regulation, as chromatin immunoprecipitaion of the Ar promoter region in C2C12 myoblasts was accomplished by antibodies against STAT5a. These experiments demonstrate an important role for STAT5a/b in skeletal muscle physiology and they provide a direct link to androgen signaling."'
GSE14710_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: stat5 KO or WT treated or w/o GH"'
GSE14710_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total 6 WT controls and 6 stat5a/b KO mice, treated or w/o GH"'
GSE14800_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Chronic loss of Lasp1 alters the expression of other genes associated with cell motility/attachment, and/or other cellular functions.  Results provide new information showing that loss of Lasp1 leads to up- and down-regulation of genes involved in cell motility/attachment/growth."'
GSE14802_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparisons of heterozygous mice carrying a duplication, Dp(11)17/+, a deletion, Df(11)17)/+, or both rearrangements, Df(11)17/Dp(11)17, with wild-type mice. Gene expression of at least two male individuals of each of the four genotypes were measured in hippocampus, cerebellum, testis, kidney and heart."'
GSE14813_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Lasp1 gene deletion: Effect on gene expression in the gastric mucosa"'
GSE14813_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Comparative analysis of gene expression in murine gastric fundic mucosa in wild-type and Lasp1-null littermates. The data provide a comprehensive overview of genes expressed in the mouse gastric mucosa and show that the expression of several known and unidentified genes is modified by disruption of the Lasp1 gene."'
GSE14829_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we compared gene expression transcriptional profiles corresponding to the initial cell cycle stages of mouse fibroblasts lacking H-Ras and/or NRas with those of matching, WT controls."'
GSE14829_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The similarity of transcription profiles among serum-starved fibroblasts of all different WT and ras knockout genotypes tested, indicated that H-Ras and N-Ras do not play significant roles in control of transcriptional responses to serum deprivation stress. In contrast, genomic disruption of H-ras or N-ras, individually or in combination, determined highly specific, differential gene expression profiles in response to post-starvation stimulation with serum for 1 hour (G0/G1 transition) or for 8 hours (mid-G1 progression). The absence of N-Ras caused significantly higher changes than the absence of H-Ras on the wave of transcriptional activation linked to G0/G1 transition. In contrast, the absence of H-Ras affected more potently the profile of the transcriptional wave detected during mid-G1 progression. Functional analysis demonstrated a predominant functional association of H-Ras with growth and proliferation, whereas N-Ras exhibited a closer functional link to development or cell cycle regulation as well as immunomodulation and apoptosis. Mechanistic analysis indicated that ERK-dependent activation of Stat1 mediates the regulatory effect of N-Ras on defense and immunity, whereas the pro-apoptotic effects of N-Ras are mediated through ERK and p38 signaling.  Our observations support previous reports of an absolute requirement for different peaks of Ras activity during the initial stages of the cell cycle and confirm the notion of functional specificity for the H-Ras and N-Ras isoforms."'
GSE14829_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: different gene KO mice and time course"'
GSE14854_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Inbred mouse strains C57BL/6J (B6) and C3H/HeJ (C3H) exhibit a marked difference in their susceptibility to atherosclerosis and the arterial wall has proven to be a source of the difference in atherosclerosis susceptibility.  Genome-wide gene expression analysis was conducted in aortic walls of the two strains.  Total RNA was extracted from aortas of 6-week-old female B6 and C3H apoE-deficient (apoE-/-) mice fed a chow or Western diet.  1514 genes in chow fed mice and 590 genes in Western fed mice were found to be differentially expressed between the two strains.  RNA was extracted from aorta using a Trizol protocol.  Total RNA was pooled in an equal amount from 4 mice for each group. Standard Affymetrix procedures were performed using 8ug of total RNA."'
GSE14854_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Microarrays were used to detect gene expression in aortic walls of two apoE-deficient mouse strains when fed a chow or western diet."'
GSE14855_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"Effect of MnSOD knockout cells on gene profile expression"'
GSE14855_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"WT-AML-12 cells silenced (si) for MnSOD were prepared, briefly: The backbone vector pSUPER.retro.puro was used for silencing. Transcripts of 60-nt long oligos constituting hairpin RNAs were designed to generate a low level of MnSOD silencing: a nine-loop (9 L) hairpin with 20 nt of MnSOD sense (siMnSOD) and a 9 L hairpin with 20 nt of scramble-no gene recognition control sense (Scr). Retroviral particles were produced by triple transfection of HEK 293T cells (ATCC No. CRL-11268T) with the retroviral vector (2 ug), pMD-gag-pol (1 ug) and pVSV-G (1 ug) using Trans-IT (Mirusbio Corporation, Madison, WI). For stable transfection, the various retroviruses were introduced with WT-AML-12 hepatocytes using polybrene (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) in a six-well plate followed by selection with 10 ug puromycin for 2 weeks."'
GSE14869_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) regulates responses to chemical or physical stress in part by altering expression of genes involved in proteome maintenance.  Many of these genes are also transcriptionally regulated by heat shock (HS) through activation by HS factor-1 (HSF1).  We hypothesized that there are interactions on a genetic level between PPARα and the HS response mediated by HSF1.  Wild-type and PPARα-null mice were exposed to HS, the PPARα agonist WY-14,643 (WY), or both; gene and protein expression was examined in the livers of the mice 4 or 24 hrs after HS.  Gene expression profiling identified a number of Hsp family members that were altered similarly in both mouse strains.  However, most of the targets of HS did not overlap between strains.  A subset of genes was shown by microarray and RT-PCR to be regulated by HS in a PPARα-dependent manner.  HS also down-regulated a large set of mitochondrial genes specifically in PPARα-null mice that are known targets of PPARg co-activator 1 (PGC-1) family members.  Pretreatment of PPARα-null mice with WY increased expression of PGC-1b and target genes and prevented the down-regulation of the mitochondrial genes by HS.  A comparison of HS genes regulated in our dataset with those identified in wild-type and HSF1-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts indicated that although many HS genes are regulated independently of both PPARα and HSF1, a number require both factors for HS responsiveness.  These findings demonstrate that the PPARα genotype has a dramatic effect on the transcriptional targets of HS and support an expanded role for PPARα in the regulation of proteome maintenance genes after exposure to diverse forms of environmental stress including HS."'
GSE14892_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"BACKGROUND & AIMS: Stems cells within the intestinal epithelium generate daughter cells which undergo lineage commitment and maturation through the concerted action of the Wnt and Notch signalling cascades. Both pathways, in turn, regulate transcription factor networks which further define differentiation towards either enterocytes or one of three secretory cell lineages (Paneth, goblet or enteroendocrine cells). In this manuscript, we identified the Ets domain transcription factor, Spdef, as a novel lineage maker of goblet and Paneth cells. METHODS: To address the function of Spdef in vivo, we inactivated the Spdef gene and analysed the intestinal phenotype using a range of histological techniques and DNA microarray profiling. RESULTS: In accordance with the expression data we found that loss of Spdef severely impaired the maturation of goblet and Paneth cells and conversely lead to an accumulation of immature secretory progenitors. Moreover, we provide evidence suggesting that Spdef positively and negatively regulates a specific subset of goblet and Paneth cell genes including Cryptdins, Mmp7, Ang4, Kallikreins, and Muc2. CONCLUSION: We propose a model whereby Spdef acts downstream of Math1 to promote terminal differentiation of a secretory progenitor pool towards Paneth and goblet cells."'
GSE14906_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify the targets of GATA4-FOG2 action in mammalian heart development we performed Affymetrix microarray comparisons of gene expression in normal and mutant at embryonic (E) day E12.5 hearts.  We compared RNA samples from both Fog2-null and Gata4ki/ki mutant E12.5 hearts to the wild-type control E12.5 hearts. We reasoned that as the phenotypes of the Fog2 knockout and Gata4ki/ki mutation (a V217G mutation that specifically cripples the interaction between GATA4 and FOG proteins) are similar, we should expect to identify a similar set of differentially expressed genes in both experiments. As an additional control, we expected to find the Fog2 gene expression absent in the mutant (null) Fog2 cardiac sample, but not Gata4ki/ki sample. "'
GSE14906_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify the targets of GATA4-FOG2 action in mammalian heart development we performed Affymetrix microarray comparisons of gene expression in normal and mutant at embryonic (E) day E12.5 hearts.  We compared RNA samples from both Fog2-null and Gata4ki/ki mutant E12.5 hearts to the wild-type control E12.5 hearts. We reasoned that as the phenotypes of the Fog2 knockout and Gata4ki/ki mutation (a V217G mutation that specifically cripples the interaction between GATA4 and FOG proteins) are similar, we should expect to identify a similar set of differentially expressed genes in both experiments. As an additional control, we expected to find the Fog2 gene expression absent in the mutant (null) Fog2 cardiac sample, but not Gata4ki/ki sample. "'
GSE14906_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"We have analyzed 6 RNA samples total (3 from control hearts, 2 from FOG2 null hearts and 1 from GATA4ki hearts)"'
GSE14917_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We have previously demonstrated that deletion of the Cebpa gene in the developing fetal mouse lung caused death soon after birth from the failure of lung maturation.  Many of the transcriptional pathways regulating morphogenesis of the fetal lung are induced postnatally and mediate repair of the injured lung.  We hypothesized that C/EBPa plays a role in protection of the alveolar epithelium following hyperoxia injury of the mature lung.  Transgenic Cebpa∆/∆ mice in which Cebpa was conditionally deleted from Clara cells (from early gestation) and type II cells (from near-term) were developed.  Cebpa∆/∆ mice grow normally without any pulmonary abnormalities. Cebpa∆/∆ mice were highly susceptible to hyperoxia. Cebpa∆/∆ mice died within 4d after hyperoxia associated with severe lung inflammation and altered surfactant components at a time when all control mice survived.  Microarrays were analyzed on isolated type II cells at an early stage (24h) of hyperoxia exposure to detect the primary genes influenced by deletion of Cebpa.  The associated network analysis revealed the reduced expression of key genes related to surfactant lipid and protein homeostasis, such as Srebf, Scap, Lpcat1, Abca3, Sftpb, and Napsa.  Genes for the cell signaling, immune response, and protective antioxidants, including GSH and Vnn-1,3, were decreased in the Cebpa∆/∆ mice lung.  C/EBPa did not play a critical role in postnatal pulmonary function under normal conditions.  In contrast, in the absence of C/EBPa, exposure to hyperoxia caused respiratory failure, supporting the concept that C/EBPa plays an important role in enhancing epithelial cell survival, surfactant lipid homeostasis, and maturation of SP-B from pro-SP-B. "'
GSE14917_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Transgenic Cebpa delta/delta mice in which Cebpa was conditionally deleted from Clara cells (from early gestation) and type II cells (from near-term) were developed. Microarrays were analyzed on isolated type II cells at an early stage (0h, 2h, 24h) of hyperoxia exposure to detect the primary genes influenced by deletion of Cebpa."'
GSE14920_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP), a widely used plasticizer, is detected in consumer’s body fluids. Contamination occurs through environmental and food chain sources. In mouse liver, DEHP activates the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) and regulates the expression of its target genes. Several in vitro investigations support the simultaneous recruitment of additional nuclear receptor pathways.  We investigated, in vivo, the hepatic impact of low doses of DEHP on PPARalpha activation, and the putative activation of additional signalling pathways. Wild-type and PPARalpha-deficient mice were exposed to different doses of DEHP. Gene expression profiling delineated the role of PPARalpha and revealed a PPARalpha-independent regulation of several prototypic Constitutive Androstane Receptor (CAR) target genes.   This finding demonstrates that CAR also represents a transcriptional regulator sensitive to phthalates. CAR-mediated effects of DEHP provide a new rationale for most endpoints of phthalates toxicity described previously, including endocrine disruption, hepatocarcinogenesis and the metabolic syndrome."'
GSE14920_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"One-color macroarrays, 6 experimental conditions: Wild type (WT) and PPARalpha-deficient mice (PPAR) were treated with vehicle (Ctrl) or with di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP) at 20 mg/kg/day (D20) or 200 mg/kg/day (D200) for 21 days, Biological replicates: 10 for each group, One replicate per array"'
GSE14921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Hepatocyte-specific deletion of SIRT1 alters fatty acid metabolism"'
GSE14921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Hepatic metabolic derangements are key components in the development of fatty liver, insulin resistance, and atherosclerosis. SIRT1, a NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase, is an important regulator of energy homeostasis in response to nutrient availability. Here we demonstrate that hepatic SIRT1 regulates fatty acid metabolism by positively regulating PPAR-alpha. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of SIRT1 impairs PPAR-alpha signaling and decreased fatty acid beta-oxidation in the liver. When challenged with a high-fat diet, liver-specific SIRT1 knockout mice develop hepatic steatosis, hepatic inflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Taken together, our data indicate that SIRT1 plays a vital role in the regulation of hepatic lipid homeostasis."'
GSE14921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Hepatic metabolic derangements are key components in the development of fatty liver, insulin resistance, and atherosclerosis. SIRT1, a NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase, is an important regulator of energy homeostasis in response to nutrient availability. Here we demonstrate that hepatic SIRT1 regulates fatty acid metabolism by positively regulating PPAR-alpha. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of SIRT1 impairs PPAR-alpha signaling and decreased fatty acid beta-oxidation in the liver. When challenged with a high-fat diet, liver-specific SIRT1 knockout mice develop hepatic steatosis, hepatic inflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Taken together, our data indicate that SIRT1 plays a vital role in the regulation of hepatic lipid homeostasis."'
GSE14921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"ix Lox control and six Liver-specific SIRT1 KO (SIRT1 LKO) mice in 95% C57BL/6 background were fed ad libitum with free access to water and food. They were then sacrificed at 4:00pm to analyze PPAR-alpha mediated phenotypes under physiologically relevant conditions. Livers from these mice were then dissected and RNA was isolated with a Qiagen RNA easy mini kit with on-column DNAseI treatment. RNA quality was validated with the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer in the microarray facility. RNA samples were then pooled with 2 animals/replicate and analyzed by Agilent Whole Mouse arrays. Data are generated by the Rosetta Resolver Error Model."'
GSE14971_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_title	"Comparative gene expression profile of Cux2 knock-out cortex"'
GSE14971_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression profiles of Cux2 ko cortex was compared to the profile of WT cortex."'
GSE14971_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cerebral cortex of WT and Cux2 ko animals were dissected and total RNA was obtained. Gene expression profiles were obtained for each sample and compared."'
GSE14980_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"G1ME cells are GATA1-deficient murine bipotential megakaryocyte/erythrocyte progenitor cells derived from Gata1-negative murine ES cells.  In order to assess the impact of GATA1 on gene regulation and cell differentiation, an expression construct was used to transiently produce high levels of GATA1.  Cells transduced with this construct or a vector control were harvested at 18 and 42 hours, and gene expression was analyzed using Affymetrix MOE430 version 2 arrays."'
GSE14984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We performed gene expression microarray analysis of the hypothalamic response to starvation in neonatal wild-type mice, and in Snord116del mice that are a mouse model for PWS.  This study is motivated by the neonatal feeding problems observed in several genetic diseases including Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). Later in life, individuals with PWS develop hyperphagia and obesity due to lack of appetite control. We hypothesize that failure to thrive in infancy and later-onset hyperphagia may be related and could be due to a defect in the hypothalamus. In this study, we performed gene expression microarray analysis of the hypothalamic response to starvation in neonatal wild-type mice, and in Snord116del mice that are a mouse model for PWS. The neonatal starvation response was dramatically different from that reported in adult rodents. Genes that are affected by adult starvation are not changed in the hypothalamus of 5 day-old pups that were starved for 6 hrs.  Unlike in adult rodents, expression levels of Nanos2 and Pdk4 were increased, and those of Pgpep1, Ndph, Brms1l, Mett10d, and Snx1 were decreased after fasting.  In addition, we compared hypothalamic gene expression profiles at days 5 and 13 to document developmental changes.  Notably, the gene expression profiles of Snord116del deletion mice and wild-type littermates were very similar at both postnatal days 5 and 13, and after starvation.  "'
GSE14984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison 1: wild type vs. PWS deletion in P5 non-starved mice;"'
GSE14984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison 2: wild type vs. PWS deletion in P5 fasting mice;"'
GSE14984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison 4: non-starved vs. fasting in P5 PWS deletion mice;"'
GSE14984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison 5: wild type vs. PWD deletion in P13 non-starved mice;"'
