GSE10005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used a microarray platform to survey the daily levels of 78 D. melanogaster miRNAs in adult heads of wildtype control flies and the arrhythmic clock mutant cyc01.  At least 2 miRNAs were identified that showed robust daily abundance changes in control flies but not the cyc01 mutant. "'
GSE10169_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Background: A point mutation in the Drosophila gene technical knockout (tko), encoding mitoribosomal protein S12, provokes a phenotype of respiratory chain deficiency, developmental delay and neurological abnormalities similar to those presented in many human mitochondrial disorders, as well as defective courtship behaviour."'
GSE10169_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Results: Transcriptome-wide analysis of gene expression in tko25t mutant flies revealed systematic, compensatory changes in expression of genes connected with metabolism, including upregulation of lactate dehydrogenase and of many genes involved in the catabolism of fats and proteins, the TCA cycle and anaplerotic pathways feeding into it.  Gut-specific enzymes involved in the primary mobilization of dietary fat and protein, as well as a number of transport functions, were strongly upregulated, consistent with the idea that OXPHOS dysfunction is perceived physiologically as a starvation for particular biomolecules.  Many stress-response genes were also induced.  Other changes may reflect a signature of developmental delay.  There was also down-regulation of genes connected with reproduction, including gametogenesis, especially in females, and courtship behaviour in males. This might represent a programmed response to a mitochondrially generated starvation signal.  Although human sexual behaviour is not known to respond to mitochondrial dysfunction, the underlying signaling pathway, if conserved, could influence many physiological processes in response to nutritional stress.  Transcriptomic analysis suggested the possible involvement of the Akt1/sgg signaling pathway(s)."'
GSE10169_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: mutant analysis"'
GSE10169_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Crosses and maintenance: Inbreeding under stressful conditions inevitably results in the selection of compensatory alleles of many genes. In order to avoid such issues, and thus determine the global effects on gene expression of the tko25t mutation in a truly unselected and 'wild-type' background, we outbred tko25t over more than 10 generations by back-crossing to each of two commonly used wild-type strains, Canton S and Oregon R. Subsequent to this backcrossing, tko25t was maintained in each background using a balancer chromosome. These stocks were then used to generate a tko25t mutant F1 generation, by crossing virgin Canton S tko25t homozygous mutant females with Oregon R tko25t males. For comparison, we generated otherwise isogenic wild-type F1 progeny by crossing virgin Canton S wild-type females with Oregon R wild-type males."'
GSE10169_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparative analysis: Data analysis for each gene in the array compared each tko25t mutant RNA isolate with each wild-type RNA isolate from flies of the given sex, generating 9 comparative measurements, over which the statistical analysis was performed."'
GSE10208_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Drosophila embryos that were lacking the hemocyte lineage were compared to wild-type embryos."'
GSE10208_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild-type drosophila embryos were compared to serpent mutant embryos."'
GSE10209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"wounded vs unwounded hemocyte deficient embryos"'
GSE10209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Wounded versus unwounded embryos lacking the hemocyte lineage were compared."'
GSE10209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wounded vs unwounded srp mutant embryos"'
GSE10209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Serpent mutant embryos were wounded by laser ablation and compared to unwounded."'
GSE10219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In eukaryotes, neighboring genes can be packaged together in specific chromatin structures that ensure their coordinated expression. Examples of such multi-gene chromatin domains are well-documented, but a global view of the chromatin organization of eukaryotic genomes is lacking. To systematically identify multi-gene chromatin domains, we constructed a compendium of genome-scale binding maps for a broad panel of chromatin-associated proteins in Drosophila melanogaster. Next, we computationally analyzed this compendium for evidence of multi-gene chromatin domains using a novel statistical segmentation algorithm. We find that at least 34% of the fly genome is organized into chromatin domains, which often consist of dozens of genes. The domains are characterized by various known and novel combinations of chromatin proteins. The genes in many of the domains are coregulated during development and share biological functions. Furthermore, fewer chromosomal rearrangements occur inside chromatin domains than outside domains during evolution. Our results indicate that a substantial portion of the Drosophila genome is packaged into functionally coherent, multi-gene chromatin domains. This has broad mechanistic implications for gene regulation and genome evolution."'
GSE10225_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Expression study of 'hemocyte minus vs hemocyte plus, and wounded vs unwounded hemocyte deficient' drosophila embryos"'
GSE10264_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The vertebrate nuclear hormone receptor steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1; NR5A1) controls reproductive development and regulates the transcription of steroid-modifying cytochrome P450 genes. We find that the SF1-related Drosophila nuclear hormone receptor HR39 is also essential for sexual development. In Hr39 mutant females, the sperm-storing spermathecae and glandular parovaria are absent or defective, causing sterility. Our results indicate that spermathecae and parovaria secrete reproductive tract proteins required for sperm maturation and function, like the mammalian epididymis and female reproductive tract. Hr39 controls the expression of specific cytochrome P450 genes and is required in females both to activate spermathecal secretion and repress male-specific courtship genes such as takeout. Thus, a pathway that, in vertebrates, controls sex-specific steroid hormone production, also mediates reproductive functions in an invertebrate. Our findings suggest that Drosophila can be used to model more aspects of mammalian reproductive biology than previously believed."'
GSE10264_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: mutant/wild-type comparison and tissue comparison"'
GSE10277_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"RNA silencing is a conserved mechanism in which small RNAs trigger various forms of sequence specific gene silencing by guiding Argonaute complexes to target RNAs via base-pairing. RNA silencing is thought to have evolved as a form of nucleic-acid-based immunity to inactivate viruses and transposable elements (TEs). Although the activity of TEs in animals has been thought to be largely restricted to the germline, recent studies have shown that they may also actively transpose in somatic cells, creating somatic mosaicism in animals3. In the Drosophila germline, piRNAs arise from repetitive intergenic elements including retrotransposons by a Dicer-independent pathway and function through the PIWI subfamily of Argonautes to ensure silencing of retrotransposons. Here we show that in Drosophila cultured S2 cells, Argonaute2 (AGO2), an AGO subfamily member of Argonautes, associates with endogenous small RNAs of 20-22 nucleotides in length, which we have collectively named esiRNAs (endogenous siRNAs). esiRNAs can be divided into two groups: one that mainly corresponds to a subset of retrotransposons, and the other that arises from stem-loop structures. esiRNAs are produced in a Dicer-2-dependent manner from distinctive genomic loci, are modified at their 3’ ends and can direct AGO2 to cleave target RNAs. Depletion of Dicer2 or AGO2 in S2 cells coincided with higher levels of retrotransposon transcripts. Together, our findings indicate that in Drosophila, different types of small RNAs and Argonautes are utilized to repress retrotransposons in germline and somatic cells."'
GSE10546_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"In fasted mammals, glucose homeostasis is maintained through activation of the cAMP responsive CREB coactivator TORC2, which stimulates the gluconeogenic program in concert with the forkhead transcription factor FOXO1. Here we show that starvation also triggers TORC activation in Drosophila, where it maintains energy balance by promoting the expression of CREB target genes in the brain. TORC mutant flies have reduced glycogen and lipid stores, and they are sensitive to starvation as well as oxidative stress. Neuronal TORC expression rescued starvation and oxidative stress sensitivity as well as CREB target gene expression in TORC mutants. During refeeding, increases in insulin signaling inhibited TORC activity in wild type flies by stimulating the Salt Inducible Kinase 2 (SIK2)-mediated phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of TORC. Depletion of neuronal SIK2 increased TORC activity and enhanced resistance to starvation and oxidative stress in adult flies.  As disruption of insulin signaling, either by ablation of insulin-producing cells (IPCs) or by mutation of the insulin receptor adaptor gene chico, also increased TORC activity, our results illustrate the importance of an insulin-regulated pathway in brain that promotes energy balance in Drosophila."'
GSE10625_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"IPC knockout, 14 day old female flies, 48h yeast feeding"'
GSE10625_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Insulin signaling pathway is conserved from worms to humans. In Drosophila, three insulin-like peptides (dilps) are expressed in the insulin producing cells (IPCs) in the brain. In order to identify target genes of insulin signaling,  the IPCs of female flies were destroyed during development by expressing apoptosis inducing factors reaper and head involution defective under control of the promoter region of dilp3. These insulin-deficient flies were analysed using high density microarrays."'
GSE10625_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: IPC knockout, 14 day old female flies, 48h yeast feeding"'
GSE10625_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Insulin producing cell deficient flies were compared to control flies. Two independent biological repeats were performed. From the two repeats, 5 chips were hybridised, including dye swap"'
GSE10781_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of cells in culture has made substantial contributions to biological research. The versatility and scale of in vitro manipulation and new applications such as high throughput gene silencing screens ensure the continued importance of cell-culture studies. In comparison to mammalian systems, Drosophila cell culture is underdeveloped, primarily because there is no general genetic method for deriving new cell lines. Here we found expression of the conserved oncogene, RasV12 (a constitutively activated form of Ras), profoundly influences the development of primary cultures derived from embryos. The cultures become confluent in about three weeks and can be passaged with great success. The cells have undergone more than 90 population doublings and therefore constitute continuous cell lines. We tested the use of the method for deriving Drosophila cell lines of a specific genotype by establishing cultures from embryos in which the warts (wts) tumor suppressor gene was silenced. We successfully created several cell lines and found these differ from controls because they are primarily polyploid. This phenotype likely reflects the known role for the mammalian wts counterparts in the tetraploidy checkpoint. We conclude that expression of RasV12 is a powerful mechanism to promote proliferation in Drosophila primary culture and serves as an efficient means to generate continuous cell lines. This offers an opportunity to create cell lines of specific genotypes and potentially of a given cell type."'
GSE10853_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"200~300 Drosophila third instar larvae hemocytes from each of five lines were dissected to get at least 1 microgram of total RNA. Because all samples were hybridized to single-dye Affymetrix chip, control data were compared with data from each mutant."'
GSE10940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Logjam p24 mutant microarray analysis"'
GSE10940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We performed genome-wide profiling experiments on tissues from Drosophila melanogaster adult females with a mutation in the p24 gene logjam (loj) to test the hypothesis that loss of loj function causes a transcriptional response characteristic of ER stress activation."'
GSE10940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: logjam mutant compared to control "'
GSE10940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We compared expression profiles from loj mutant females to those of controls. We compared mutant and control abdomen tissue as well as mutant and control tissue preparations from the remainder of the fly (the head/thorax). Three mutant and three control RNA samples for each set of tissue were used for array hybridization (12 total array samples).  "'
GSE11164_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Profiling of changes in steady state RNA levels upon RNAi-mediated knockdown of the nucleosome remodeling ATPase ISWI in Drosophila SL2 cells."'
GSE11164_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: RNAi-mediated knockdown"'
GSE11231_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In all animals, the initial events of embryogenesis are controlled by maternal gene products that are deposited into the developing oocyte. At some point after fertilization, control of embryogenesis is transferred to the zygotic genome in a process called the maternal to zygotic transition (MZT). During this time maternal RNAs are degraded and zygotic RNAs are transcribed1. A long standing question has been, what factors regulate these events? The recent findings that microRNAs and Smaugs mediate maternal transcript degradation brought new life to this old problem2,3, however, the transcription factors that activate zygotic gene expression remained elusive. A clue came from the finding that many early zygotic genes in Drosophila share a cis-regulatory heptamer motif, CAGGTAG and related sequences, collectively referred to as TAG-team sites4,5. We asked whether there was a dedicated transcription factor that interacts with these sites to activate early genes. Here we report the discovery of a zinc-finger protein, Zelda (Zld) that binds specifically to TAG-team sites, and is capable of activating transcription in transient transfection assays. Mutant embryos lacking zld are defective in the cellularization process, and fail to activate the transcription of many early zygotic genes involved in cellularization, sex determination, and dorsoventral patterning. Global expression profiling confirmed that Zld plays a key role in the activation of the early zygotic genome, and suggests that Zld may also play a role in maternal RNA degradation during the MZT since many RNAs are up-regulated in the absence of Zld."'
GSE11311_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"All microarrays were dual channel with direct comparisons of male versus female or wild type versus mutant.  All samples consist of whole body pupae collected at 48 hour After Puparium Formation (APF).  For each experiment, four biological replicates were analyzed in a dye-swap design.  "'
GSE11485-GPL5636_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip: msl3 mutant embryos (1 g) were collected for chromatin preparation as described in Alekseyenko et al. (2006). Immunoprecipitation was performed with anti-MSL2 antibody, as in Larschan et al. (2007). Immunoprecipitated DNA was isolated, amplified and hybridized to NimbleGen tiling arrays as in Alekseyenko et al (2006). We performed two replicates for each type of ChIP-chip experiment."'
GSE11485-GPL6924_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP-chip: msl3 mutant embryos (1 g) were collected for chromatin preparation as described in Alekseyenko et al. (2006). Immunoprecipitation was performed with anti-MSL2 antibody, as in Larschan et al. (2007). Immunoprecipitated DNA was isolated, amplified and hybridized to NimbleGen tiling arrays as in Alekseyenko et al (2006). We performed two replicates for each type of ChIP-chip experiment."'
GSE11752_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"All microarrays were dual channel with direct comparisons of male versus female, wild type versus mutant, or experimental versus control. For each experiment, four to eight independent biological samples were analyzed using a dye-swap design.  Samples consisted of whole body pupae or dissected CNS collected either at 0 hour After Pupal Formation (APF), 48 hour APF, or 0-24 hour adults.  "'
GSE11817_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Active genes on the X chromosome of Drosophila males are upregulated by the Male-specific lethal (MSL) complex containing five MSL proteins and two non-coding roX RNAs. To probe the targeting mechanism, we have solved the structure of the MSL3 chromodomain, designed point mutations in key residues that disrupt putative methyl-lysine recognition, and tested their effect on full length MSL3 function. Transgenic males expressing these site-directed point mutants or MSL3short, a naturally occurring MSL3 form lacking the chromodomain, are unhealthy and developmentally delayed. Genomewide analyses of the binding patterns of these mutants support a two-step model: the first step is chromodomain-independent association with “chromatin entry sites” carrying GA-rich MSL recognition elements (MREs). The second step involves spreading from entry sites to the majority of active genes on the X. Either deleting or introducing point mutations in the MSL3 chromodomain disrupts this second step. In vitro studies demonstrate that chromodomain mutants have diminished interaction with recombinant nucleosomes methylated at H3K36. We propose that MSL spreading depends, to a large extent, on the integrity of the MSL3 chromodomain to interact with lysine-methylated nucleosomes."'
GSE11825_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Chromatin remodeling complexes control the availability of DNA binding sites to transcriptional regulators. Two distinct forms of the major SWI/SNF-related complex that have different activities in vitro can be distinguished by the presence of specific accessory subunits. In Drosophila, the core Brahma complex associates either with Osa to form the BAP complex, or with Bap170 and Bap180 to form the PBAP complex. Mutations affecting the core subunits have stronger developmental phenotypes than osa mutations; these differences could be due to PBAP complex activity . We have generated mutations in the genes encoding the PBAP-specific subunits Bap170 and Bap180 in order to study their functions in vivo. Bap180 is not essential for viability, but is required in ovarian follicle cells for normal eggshell development. Bap170 is necessary to stabilize the Bap180 protein; however, a mutant form that retains this function is sufficient for survival and fertility. The two subunits act redundantly to allow metamorphosis; using gene expression profiling of double mutants, we have found that the PBAP complex regulates genes involved in tissue remodeling and immune system function. Finally, we have generated mutants that lack Bap170, Bap180 and Osa in the germline to demonstrate that the function of the core Brahma complex in oogenesis does not require any of these accessory subunits."'
GSE11825_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two males and two females for each genotype (wild type and bap170;bap180 double mutant) were processed at white prepupae stage (0 hour APF)"'
GSE12054_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Drosophila males double transcription of their single X chromosome to equalize X-linked gene expression with females, which carry two X chromosomes. Increased transcription requires the Male-Specific Lethal (MSL) complex. The MSL2 protein is essential component of the MSL complex. MSL2 is the only protein that is strictly limited to males. MSL2 together with MSL1 forms the core of the MSL complex. The global effect of msl2 mutation on gene expression was measured by microarray analysis. We found that expression of the X chromosome was decreased in msl21 male larvae, supporting the involvement of MSL2 in the up-regulation of X-linked genes. However, there was no change in expression of 4th chromosomal and heterochromatic genes. This finding is broadly comparable to reports of reduced X chromosome expression following msl2 RNAi knockdown in S2 cells. Hence MSL2 is required for up-regulation of male X chromosome where as it is not necessary for normal expression of 4th chromosomal genes and heterochromatic genes in Drosophila melanogaster males. "'
GSE12076_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"roX RNAs are involved in the chromosome-wide gene regulation that occurs during dosage compensation in Drosophila. Dosage compensation equalizes expression of X-linked and autosomal genes. Drosophila males increase transcription two-fold from their single X chromosome. This is mediated by the MSL complex, which is composed of the male-specific lethal (MSL) proteins and two noncoding roX RNAs, roX1 and roX2.  Upon elimination of both roX transcripts, a global decrease of X-linked gene expression is observed in males. Expression of the genes on the entire 4th chromosome also decreased in the absence of both roX transcripts. roX1 RNA also presents in females in the early stages. To investigate the effect of loss of roX transcripts on gene expression in females, gene expression was analyzed by microarrays  in roX1-roX2- female flies. To eliminate inconsistency caused by differences in genetic background, expression of roX1-roX2- females with females of virtually identical genetic background but carrying the [hsp83-roX1+] transgene were compared.  Expression of any chromosome did not change in roX1-roX2- females. It was concluded that roX RNAs only effect in males . "'
GSE12076_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was prepared from groups of 50 third instar larvae by TRIzol (Invitrogen) extraction and purified using the RNeasy kit (Qiagen). Three independent RNA preparations for each genotype served as templates for probe synthesis. These probes were hybridized to Affymetrix Drosophila Genome 2.0 chips (Santa Clara, CA). Genes were filtered for present/absent calls by a PM-MM (Perfect match-Mismatch) comparison. Affymetrix Gene expression data was background corrected, normalized and summarized into a one expression value per replicate sample and probeset using the RMA (robust multi-array average) algorithm. Changes in gene expression were determined by comparing the mean signal intensities of genes on arrays hybridized with roX1- roX2- (mutant) probes to those hybridized with roX1- roX2-;  [hsp83-roX1+] (control) probes."'
GSE12178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The antenno-maxilary complex (AMC) forms the chemosensory system of the Drosophila larva and is involved in gustatory and olfactory perception. We have previously shown that a mutant allele of the homeodomain transcription factor Prospero (prosVoila1, V1), presents several developmental defects including abnormal growth and altered taste responses. In addition, many neural tracts connecting the AMC to the central nervous system (CNS) were affected. Our earlier reports on larval AMC did not argue in favour of a role of pros in cell fate decision, but strongly suggested that pros could be involved in the control of other aspect of neuronal development. In order to identify these functions, we used microarray analysis of larval AMC and CNS tissue isolated from the wild type, and three other previously characterised prospero alleles, including the V1 mutant, considered as a null allele for the AMC."'
GSE12178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The antenno-maxilary complex (AMC) forms the chemosensory system of the Drosophila larva and is involved in gustatory and olfactory perception. We have previously shown that a mutant allele of the homeodomain transcription factor Prospero (prosVoila1, V1), presents several developmental defects including abnormal growth and altered taste responses. In addition, many neural tracts connecting the AMC to the central nervous system (CNS) were affected. Our earlier reports on larval AMC did not argue in favour of a role of pros in cell fate decision, but strongly suggested that pros could be involved in the control of other aspect of neuronal development. In order to identify these functions, we used microarray analysis of larval AMC and CNS tissue isolated from the wild type, and three other previously characterised prospero alleles, including the V1 mutant, considered as a null allele for the AMC."'
GSE12178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"A total of 17 samples were first analysed with hierarchical clustering. To determine those genes affected by loss of pros function, we calculated a discriminating score reflecting the differential expression between V1 mutant and other pros alleles. We identified a total of 64 genes in the AMC. Additional manual annotation using all the computed information on the attributed role of these genes in the Drosophila larvae nervous system, enabled us to identify a first functional category of potential Prospero target genes known to be involved in neurite outgrowth, synaptic transmission and more specifically in neuronal connectivity remodelling. The second category of genes found to be differentially expressed between the null mutant AMC and the other alleles concerned the development of the sensory organs and more particularly the larval olfactory system. Surprisingly, a third category emerged from our analyses and suggests an association of pros with the genes that regulate autophagy, growth and insulin pathways. Interestingly, EGFR and Notch pathways were represented in all of these three functional categories. We now propose that Pros could perform all of these different functions through the modulation of these two antagonistic and synergic pathways."'
GSE12178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"A total of 17 samples were first analysed with hierarchical clustering. To determine those genes affected by loss of pros function, we calculated a discriminating score reflecting the differential expression between V1 mutant and other pros alleles. We identified a total of 64 genes in the AMC. Additional manual annotation using all the computed information on the attributed role of these genes in the Drosophila larvae nervous system, enabled us to identify a first functional category of potential Prospero target genes known to be involved in neurite outgrowth, synaptic transmission and more specifically in neuronal connectivity remodelling. The second category of genes found to be differentially expressed between the null mutant AMC and the other alleles concerned the development of the sensory organs and more particularly the larval olfactory system. Surprisingly, a third category emerged from our analyses and suggests an association of pros with the genes that regulate autophagy, growth and insulin pathways. Interestingly, EGFR and Notch pathways were represented in all of these three functional categories. We now propose that Pros could perform all of these different functions through the modulation of these two antagonistic and synergic pathways."'
GSE12178_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"A total of 17 samples were first analysed with hierarchical clustering. To determine those genes affected by loss of pros function, we calculated a discriminating score reflecting the differential expression between V1 mutant and other pros alleles. We identified a total of 64 genes in the AMC. Additional manual annotation using all the computed information on the attributed role of these genes in the Drosophila larvae nervous system, enabled us to identify a first functional category of potential Prospero target genes known to be involved in neurite outgrowth, synaptic transmission and more specifically in neuronal connectivity remodelling. The second category of genes found to be differentially expressed between the null mutant AMC and the other alleles concerned the development of the sensory organs and more particularly the larval olfactory system. Surprisingly, a third category emerged from our analyses and suggests an association of pros with the genes that regulate autophagy, growth and insulin pathways. Interestingly, EGFR and Notch pathways were represented in all of these three functional categories. We now propose that Pros could perform all of these different functions through the modulation of these two antagonistic and synergic pathways."'
GSE12395-GPL6952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Position-effect variegation (PEV) is the stochastic transcriptional silencing of a gene positioned adjacent to heterochromatin. white-mottled X-chromosomal inversions in Drosophila are classic PEV models that show variegation of the eye color gene white due to its relocation next to pericentric heterochromatin. To obtain insight into the mechanism of PEV, we constructed detailed binding maps of Heterochromatin Protein 1 (HP1), a major component of heterochromatin, on white-mottled chromosomes. We find that HP1 invades euchromatin across the inversion breakpoints over ~175kb and ~30kb, causing de novo association of HP1 with 20 genes. However, HP1 binding levels in these regions show substantial local variation; white is most strongly bound by HP1 and is one of only two genes that are substantially repressed by heterochromatin. HP1 binding to the invaded region is exceptionally sensitive to the dosage of the histone methyltransferase Su(var)3-9, indicating that the de novo formed heterochromatin is relatively unstable. Our molecular maps demonstrate that heterochromatin can invade a normally euchromatic region, yet the strength of HP1 binding and effects on gene expression are highly dependent on local context."'
GSE12395-GPL6952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The study comprises of two DamID experiments and two gene expression experiments.   DamID:  The first DamID experiment establishes HP1 binding profile in male heads of three fly lines; wild-type Oregon-R-S and two fly lines with white-mottled-4 chromosomal inversions; w[m4e] and w[m51b]. Each binding profile has 4 biological replicates, each dye orientation is hybridized twice.   The second DamID experiment profiles HP1 in a Su(var)3-9 mutant (w[m4]) and a sibling control fly line (Contr) which has wild type Su(var)3-9.  Expression profiling:  The first experiment contains three sets of expression profiles that measure gene expression in male heads of wild-type (Oregon-R-S), w[m4e] or w[m51b] flies.  The second experiment measures gene expression in male heads of flies that had w[m4] and hemizygous of Su(var)3-9, sibling control flies had w[m4] and wildtype Su(var)3-9. This experiment was done to establish the effect of a Su(var)3-9 mutation on the expression of white on w[m4]. The second experiment was done twice, using two different control fly lines as suppliers of the not affected wild-type chromosomes in the crosses (A=OregonRS and B=w[1118])."'
GSE12395-GPL6961_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Position-effect variegation (PEV) is the stochastic transcriptional silencing of a gene positioned adjacent to heterochromatin. white-mottled X-chromosomal inversions in Drosophila are classic PEV models that show variegation of the eye color gene white due to its relocation next to pericentric heterochromatin. To obtain insight into the mechanism of PEV, we constructed detailed binding maps of Heterochromatin Protein 1 (HP1), a major component of heterochromatin, on white-mottled chromosomes. We find that HP1 invades euchromatin across the inversion breakpoints over ~175kb and ~30kb, causing de novo association of HP1 with 20 genes. However, HP1 binding levels in these regions show substantial local variation; white is most strongly bound by HP1 and is one of only two genes that are substantially repressed by heterochromatin. HP1 binding to the invaded region is exceptionally sensitive to the dosage of the histone methyltransferase Su(var)3-9, indicating that the de novo formed heterochromatin is relatively unstable. Our molecular maps demonstrate that heterochromatin can invade a normally euchromatic region, yet the strength of HP1 binding and effects on gene expression are highly dependent on local context."'
GSE12395-GPL6961_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The study comprises of two DamID experiments and two gene expression experiments.   DamID:  The first DamID experiment establishes HP1 binding profile in male heads of three fly lines; wild-type Oregon-R-S and two fly lines with white-mottled-4 chromosomal inversions; w[m4e] and w[m51b]. Each binding profile has 4 biological replicates, each dye orientation is hybridized twice.   The second DamID experiment profiles HP1 in a Su(var)3-9 mutant (w[m4]) and a sibling control fly line (Contr) which has wild type Su(var)3-9.  Expression profiling:  The first experiment contains three sets of expression profiles that measure gene expression in male heads of wild-type (Oregon-R-S), w[m4e] or w[m51b] flies.  The second experiment measures gene expression in male heads of flies that had w[m4] and hemizygous of Su(var)3-9, sibling control flies had w[m4] and wildtype Su(var)3-9. This experiment was done to establish the effect of a Su(var)3-9 mutation on the expression of white on w[m4]. The second experiment was done twice, using two different control fly lines as suppliers of the not affected wild-type chromosomes in the crosses (A=OregonRS and B=w[1118])."'
GSE12477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from hand dissected, stage 9-10 egg chambers.  Five genetic backgrounds were profiled including: wild type, EGFR gain of function, EGFR loss of function, BMP gain of function, and BMP loss of function. Three biological replicates were hybridized for each pathway perturbation. The samples were split across two rounds of hybridization. Each round of hybridizations included three biological replicates for wild type:"'
GSE13081_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"An epigenetic role for maternally inherited piRNAs in transposon silencing"'
GSE13081_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"In plants and mammals, small RNAs indirectly mediate epigenetic inheritance  by specifying cytosine methylation.  Here, we find that small RNAs  themselves serve as vectors for epigenetic information.  Crosses between  Drosophila strains that differ in the presence of a particular transposon  can produce sterile progeny, a phenomenon called hybrid dysgenesis.  This  phenotype manifests itself only if the transposon is paternally inherited,  suggesting maternal transmission of a factor that maintains fertility. In  both P- and I-element-mediated hybrid-dysgenesis models, daughters show a  markedly different content of piRNAs targeting each element, depending upon  its parent of origin.  Such differences persist from fertilization through  adulthood.  This indicates that maternally deposited piRNAs are crucial for  mounting an effective silencing response and that a lack of maternal piRNA  inheritance underlies hybrid dysgenesis."'
GSE13287_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Microarray analysis of zygotic gene expression in 2-to-3 hour wild-type (wt) and smg mutant embryos.  Expression is relative to mature, stage 14 oocytes, which contain the full maternal pool of mRNA.   Strictly maternal genes that are not transcribed at the MZT contribute approximately 80% of transcripts in early embryos, and are not shown.  Class I zygotic genes showed high levels of expression in 2-to-3 hour embryos.  142 of the 166 Class I genes were not expressed in smg mutants.  The remaining zygotically expressed genes were also present in oocytes.  These genes were divided into two classes, based on analysis of 4-to-6 hour old unfertilized eggs (4-6h unf), which are transcriptionally inactive.  Class-II genes produce maternal transcripts that are stable in unfertilized eggs and show significantly increased expression in 2-to-3 hour post-fertilization embryos. 358 of 395 Class-II genes require SMAUG for zygotic expression.  Class-III genes produce maternal transcripts that are degraded in unfertilized eggs and show significantly increased expression in 2-to-3 hour post-fertilization embryos.  65 of 408 Class-III genes require SMAUG for expression in 2-to-3 hour embryos."'
GSE13288_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The behavior of 410 miR-309-dependent maternal mRNAs (from Bushati et al., 2008) in embryos from wild type and smg-mutant females relative to wild-type stage 14 oocyte reference RNA. All are unstable in wild-type while almost 85% are stabilized in smg mutants"'
GSE13532_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"RNAi knockdown of NMD in D Melanogaster"'
GSE13532_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Two core factors of the NMD machinery in D. melanogaster, Upf1 and Upf2, were knocked down using RNAi, as described in Rehwinkel et al. (2005) RNA, PMID: 16199763. Each of the two knockdowns were compared to mock RNAi knockdowns as described in Blanchette et al. (2005) Genes Dev, PMID: 15937219 in a dual channel experiment, using a custom splice-junction microarray design, see Blanchette et al. (2005), PMID: 15937219. The aim of the experiment was to identify which isoforms of alternatively spliced genes were affected by NMD knockdown and thereby gain insight into the NMD mechanism in Drosophila."'
GSE13779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Genomic consequences of background effects on scalloped mutant expressivity in the wing of Drosophila"'
GSE13779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genetic background effects contribute to the phenotypic consequences of  mutations, and are pervasive across all domains of life that have been examined, yet little is known about how they modify genetic systems. In part this is due to the lack of tractable model systems that have been explicitly developed to study the genetic and evolutionary consequences of background effects. In this study we demonstrate that phenotypic expressivity of the scalloped[E3]  mutation of Drosophila melanogaster is background dependent, and is the result of at least one major modifier segregating between two standard lab wild-type strains. Microarrays were used to examine the consequences of genetic background effects on the global transcriptome. Expression differences between wild-type strains were found to be as large or larger than the effects of mutations with substantial phenotypic effects, and expression differences between wild-type and mutant varied significantly between genetic backgrounds. Significantly, we demonstrate that the epistatic interaction between sd[E3] and an optomotor blind mutation is background dependent. The results are discussed within the context of developing a complex but more realistic view of the consequences of genetic background effects with respect to mutational analysis, and studies of epistasis and cryptic genetic variation segregating in natural populations"'
GSE14058_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Six samples were analyzed in total: three biological replicates of the control (Df_plus) and three biological replicates of the mutant (Df_delg)."'
GSE14370_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We characterized changes of transposon and mRNA expressions in armi, rhino ,aub, ago3 mutants with respect to wild type using Affy tiling array. In most of these mutants, mRNA expressions were mostly unchanged but increased expressions was observed for many transposons indicating the role of these proteins in silencing transposons in Drosophila ovaries"'
GSE14371_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Design: 3 genotypes x 2 treatments x 3 replicates. Treatments were leaving flies on lab food (control) or food-depriving them overnight with access to water. Three genotypes differed in foraging alleles: Rovers are homozygous for[R] (strain: BB), sitters homozygous for[s] (strain: ee, mutant sitters homozygous for[s2] (strain:s2) . Adult flies were 6-7 days post emergence. Three samples of equal numbers of male and females were collected per combination, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and heads were sieved for RNA extraction. This Gene by Environment design tests how presence or absence of food for a short period (overnight) affects gene expression in different foraging genotypes."'
GSE14516_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Pof D119 mutant expression analysis in Drosophila melanogaster testis"'
GSE14516_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: mutant analysis"'
GSE14517_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Chromosomal instability which involves deletion and duplication of chromosomes or chromosome parts is a common feature of cancers, and deficiency screens are commonly used as a method to find genes involved in different biological pathways. Still, how gene expression from whole chromosomes or large chromosomal domains is affected by deficiencies, duplications or chromosome loss is largely unknown. Using expression microarrays of deficiency hemizygotes and a duplication hemizygote we show that expressed genes are significantly buffered when present in a deficiency hemizygote and that the buffering effect is general and not mainly caused by feedback regulation of individual genes. Differentially expressed genes are in general better buffered than ubiquitously expressed genes when present in one copy. When present in three copies, differentially expressed genes are in general less buffered than ubiquitously expressed genes. Furthermore, we show that the 4th chromosome is compensated in response to dose differences. Our results suggest that general mechanisms exist to stimulate and to repress gene expression of aneuploidy regions and on the 4th chromosome this compensation is mediated by POF (Painting of Fourth)."'
GSE14531_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We show that dHNF4 null mutant larvae are sensitive to starvation. Starved mutant larvae consume glycogen normally, but retain lipids in their midgut and fat body, and have increased levels of long chain fatty acids, suggesting that they are unable to efficiently mobilize stored fat for energy. HNF4 dependent transcripts were identified under fed and starved conditions. Microarray studies indicate reduced expression of genes that control lipid catabolism and beta-oxidation. Late second instar control and HNF4 mutant larvae were collected and fed or starved for 24 hours, and then RNA was isolated for analysis. Taken together, our results support a feed-forward model for dHNF4, in which fatty acids released from triglycerides activate the receptor, inducing enzymes that drive fatty acid oxidation for energy production."'
GSE14531_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We show that dHNF4 null mutant larvae are sensitive to starvation. Starved mutant larvae consume glycogen normally, but retain lipids in their midgut and fat body, and have increased levels of long chain fatty acids, suggesting that they are unable to efficiently mobilize stored fat for energy. HNF4 dependent transcripts were identified under fed and starved conditions. Microarray studies indicate reduced expression of genes that control lipid catabolism and beta-oxidation. Late second instar control and HNF4 mutant larvae were collected and fed or starved for 24 hours, and then RNA was isolated for analysis. Taken together, our results support a feed-forward model for dHNF4, in which fatty acids released from triglycerides activate the receptor, inducing enzymes that drive fatty acid oxidation for energy production."'
GSE14531_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Staged late second instar control larvae that were transheterozygous for precise excisions of the EP2449 and KG08976 P-elements, and dHNF4D33/dHNF4D17 mutant larvae, were either fed or starved for 24 hrs in a 55mm petri dish containing Whatman paper soaked with PBS. RNA was extracted from the apparently healthy animals that molted to the third instar using Trizol (Gibco) and purified on RNAeasy columns (Qiagen). All samples were prepared in triplicate to facilitate subsequent statistical analysis. Probe labeling, hybridization to Affymetrix GeneChip® Drosophila Genome 2.0 Arrays."'
GSE14756_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"H3K9 methylation is a mark of inactive chromatin.  In D.melanogaster, three enzymes (SU(VAR)3-9, EGG, and dG9A) are responsible for creating the H3K9 methyl mark.  We have investigated the effects of loss of SU(VAR)3-9 and EGG on gene expression in adult heads using microarray analysis."'
GSE14779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Insulin signalling activity is well known to mediate transcriptional changes in response to nutrients and it is changed in the spargel mutant. We performed a  genome-wide microarray study to investigate the role of Spargel as a transcriptional coregulator downstream of insulin receptor signalling. "'
GSE14779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"To investigate the effect of Spargel on transcriptional changes mediated by the insulin-signalling pathway we analyzed 12 samples in total: three biological replicates of the control with or without UAS-Inr (Inr_wt and ctrl_wt) and three biological replicates of the spargel mutant with or without UAS-Inr (Inr_KGand ctrl_KG)."'
GSE14780_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression analysis of spargel mutant versus genetically matched wildtype control"'
GSE14780_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Six samples were analyzed in total: three biological replicates of the control (wt) and three biological replicates of the mutant (KG)."'
GSE14799_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two DrosDel [34] Drosophila melanogaster isogenic lines, Df(3L)ED4475 and Df(3L)ED4543, heterozygous for long deletions on 3L chromosomal branch both maintained against the TM6C balancer were used for microarray experiment. Twenty five adult flies 2-5 days after eclosion were frozen in liquid nitrogen and used for RNA extraction by Trizol method (Invitrogen ®, Carlsbad, CA) in twelve replicates from each line. The two deletion lines served as controls to each other."'
