GSE10031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We use microarrays to determine the differences in the transcriptional program between the Δrsf1 mutant and the wild type during respiratory growth on glycerol as well as the transition to growth on glycerol as sole carbon source."'
GSE10031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Δrsf1or the isogenic parent strain were grown to early log (A600=0.6) in YPD and then washed twice in prewarmed YPG (30ºC) and returned to the air shaker in YPG for 15, 30 or 60 minutes. ""Limit"" conditions were provided by harvesting cells grown in YPD to early log phase without shifting to YPG and by harvesting cells grown in YPG to early log phase. Since the Δrsf1 mutant and its isogenic parent strain grow equally well on the respiratory carbon source ethanol, cells were also harvested after being grown in ethanol to early log phase."'
GSE10073_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10073_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10073_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10103_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"variety of toxic effect including inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis."'
GSE10104-GPL90_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10104-GPL90_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10104-GPL90_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Sampangine, a plant-derived alkaloid found in the Annonaceae family, exhibits strong inhibitory activity against the opportunistic fungal pathogens Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  In the present study, transcriptional profiling experiments coupled with the analysis of mutants were performed in an effort to elucidate its mechanism of action.  Using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism, we show that sampangine produces a transcriptional response indicative of hypoxia, altering the expression of genes known to respond to low oxygen conditions.  Several additional lines of evidence obtained suggest that these responses could involve effects on heme.   First, the hem1 deletion mutant lacking the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased sensitivity to sampangine, and exogenously supplied hemin partially rescued the inhibitory activity of sampangine in wild-type cells.  In addition, heterozygous mutants with deletions in genes involved in five out of eight steps in the heme biosynthetic pathway showed increased susceptibility to sampangine.  Furthermore, spectral analysis of pyridine extracts indicated significant accumulation of free porphyrins in sampangine-treated cells.  Transcriptional profiling experiments were also performed in C. albicans to investigate the response of a pathogenic fungal species to sampangine.  Taking into account the known differences in the physiological responses of C. albicans and S. cerevisiae to low oxygen, significant correlations were observed between the two transcription profiles suggestive of heme-related defects.  Our results indicate that the antifungal activity of the plant alkaloid sampangine is due, at least in part, to perturbations in the biosynthesis or metabolism of heme."'
GSE10146-GPL3737_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gene expression of wild type and single YAP deletion (YAP1/2/4/5/6) strains were profiled in media supplemented with either MMS or CDDP at two different concentrations. ChIP-chip of five YAPs (YAP1/2/4/6/6) were done in duplicate in both drug-treated (MMS or CDDP) or untreated (SC media) conditions."'
GSE10146-GPL884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gene expression of wild type and single YAP deletion (YAP1/2/4/5/6) strains were profiled in media supplemented with either MMS or CDDP at two different concentrations. ChIP-chip of five YAPs (YAP1/2/4/6/6) were done in duplicate in both drug-treated (MMS or CDDP) or untreated (SC media) conditions."'
GSE10521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"These Affymetrix data were used to determine the role of each non-essential subunit of the conserved Ccr4-Not complex in the control of gene expression in the yeast S. cerevisiae. The study was performed with cells growing exponentially in high glucose and with cells grown to glucose depletion. Specific patterns of gene de-regulation were observed upon deletion of any given subunit, revealing the specificity of each subunit’s function. Consistently, the purification of the Ccr4-Not complex through Caf40p by tandem affinity purification from wild-type cells or cells lacking individual subunits of the Ccr4-Not complex revealed that each subunit had a particular impact on complex integrity. Furthermore, the micro-arrays revealed that the role of each subunit was specific to the growth conditions. From the study of only two different growth conditions, revealing an impact of the Ccr4-Not complex on more than 85% of all studied genes, we can infer that the Ccr4-Not complex is important for expression of most of the yeast genome."'
GSE10521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"These Affymetrix data were used to determine the role of each non-essential subunit of the conserved Ccr4-Not complex in the control of gene expression in the yeast S. cerevisiae. The study was performed with cells growing exponentially in high glucose and with cells grown to glucose depletion. Specific patterns of gene de-regulation were observed upon deletion of any given subunit, revealing the specificity of each subunit’s function. Consistently, the purification of the Ccr4-Not complex through Caf40p by tandem affinity purification from wild-type cells or cells lacking individual subunits of the Ccr4-Not complex revealed that each subunit had a particular impact on complex integrity. Furthermore, the micro-arrays revealed that the role of each subunit was specific to the growth conditions. From the study of only two different growth conditions, revealing an impact of the Ccr4-Not complex on more than 85% of all studied genes, we can infer that the Ccr4-Not complex is important for expression of most of the yeast genome."'
GSE10521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild-type and not2Δ, not3Δ, not4Δ, not5Δ, caf1Δ, caf130Δ and ccr4Δ null strains were grown in glucose rich medium to exponential phase and collected. Wild-type and not2Δ, not4Δ, caf1Δ, caf130Δ and ccr4Δ null strains were also grown in glucose rich medium to glucose depletion and collected 30 min after glucose depletion. Each sample was prepared twice independently. One array from the caf1Δ strain grown to glucose depletion, and one from the not5Δ and not4Δ strains growing exponentially were found to be problematic and discarded. A not5Δ sample was not prepared after glucose depletion, because it flocculates in that condition."'
GSE10554_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Background:  Pterostilbene, a naturally occurring phenolic compound produced by agronomically important plant genera such as Vitis and Vacciunium, is a phytoalexin exhibiting potent antifungal activity.  Additionally, recent studies have demonstrated several important pharmacological properties associated with pterostilbene.  Despite this, a systematic study of the effects of pterostilbene on eukaryotic cells at the molecular level has not been previously reported.  Thus, the aim of the present study was to identify the cellular pathways affected by pterostilbene by performing transcript profiling studies, employing the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  Methods:  S. cerevisiae strain S288C was exposed to pterostilbene at the IC50 concentration (70 uM) for one generation (3 h).  Transcript profiling experiments were performed on three biological replicate samples using the Affymetrix GeneChip Yeast Genome S98 Array.  The data were analyzed using the statistical methods available in the GeneSifter microarray data analysis system.   To validate the results, eleven differentially expressed genes were further examined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR, and S. cerevisiae mutant strains with deletions in these genes were analyzed for altered sensitivity to pterostilbene.  Results: Transcript profiling studies revealed that pterostilbene exposure significantly down-regulated the expression of genes involved in methionine metabolism, while the expression of genes involved in mitochondrial functions, drug detoxification, and transcription factor activity were significantly up-regulated.  Additional analyses revealed that a large number of genes involved in lipid metabolism were also affected by pterostilbene treatment.  Conclusions:  Using transcript profiling, we have identified the cellular pathways targeted by pterostilbene, an analog of resveratrol.  The observed response in lipid metabolism genes is consistent with its known hypolipidemic properties, and the induction of mitochondrial genes is consistent with its demonstrated role in apoptosis in human cancer cell lines. Furthermore, our data show that pterostilbene has a significant effect on methionine metabolism, a previously unreported effect for this compound."'
GSE10837_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Meiotic time course of the trimethylation of the Lysine 4 of Histone H3 (H3K4me3) in a mutant Spo11F"'
GSE10837_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To study the meiotic dynamic of the methylation of H3K4, in relation with the transcriptomic regulation, we determine the meiotic time-course of H3K4me3 by ChIP-chip in a mutant deficient for DSB formation."'
GSE10837_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To study the meiotic dynamic of the methylation of H3K4, in relation with the transcriptomic regulation, we determine the meiotic time-course of H3K4me3 by ChIP-chip in a mutant deficient for DSB formation."'
GSE10838_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Meiotic time course of Histone H3 occupancy in a mutant Spo11F"'
GSE10838_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To study the meiotic dynamic of the methylation of H3K4, in relation with the transcriptomic regulation, we determine the meiotic time-course of H3 occupancy by ChIP-chip in a mutant Spo11F."'
GSE10839_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Meiotic time course of the trimethylation of the Lysine 4 of Histone H3 (H3K4me3) in a mutant clb5Delta-clb6Delta"'
GSE10839_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"To study the meiotic dynamic of the methylation of H3K4, in relation with the transcriptomic regulation, we determine the meiotic time-course of H3K4me3 by ChIP-chip in a mutant deficient for DSB formation in a mutant clb5Delta-clb6Delta"'
GSE10839_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To study the meiotic dynamic of the methylation of H3K4, in relation with the transcriptomic regulation, we determine the meiotic time-course of H3K4me3 by ChIP-chip in a mutant deficient for DSB formation in a mutant clb5Delta-clb6Delta"'
GSE10860_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The structural integrity of the nucleosome is central to regulation of DNA metabolism and transcription. We describe a library of 486 systematic histone H3 and H4 substitution and deletion mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that probe the contribution of each residue to nucleosome function and can be episomal or genomically integrated. We tagged each mutant histone gene with unique molecular barcodes, facilitating identification of mutant pools through barcode amplification, labeling, and microarray hybridization. We probed fitness contributions of each residue to chemical perturbagens of chromosome integrity and transcription, mapping global patterns of chemical sensitivities and requirements for three forms of transcriptional silencing onto the nucleosome surface. Lethal mutants were surprisingly rare and of distinct types; one set of mutations mapped precisely to the DNA interaction surface. The barcode microarrays were useful for scoring complex phenotypes such as competitive fitness in a chemostat, proficiency of DNA repair, and synthetic genetic interactions."'
GSE10860_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The structural integrity of the nucleosome is central to regulation of DNA metabolism and transcription. We describe a library of 486 systematic histone H3 and H4 substitution and deletion mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that probe the contribution of each residue to nucleosome function and can be episomal or genomically integrated. We tagged each mutant histone gene with unique molecular barcodes, facilitating identification of mutant pools through barcode amplification, labeling, and microarray hybridization. We probed fitness contributions of each residue to chemical perturbagens of chromosome integrity and transcription, mapping global patterns of chemical sensitivities and requirements for three forms of transcriptional silencing onto the nucleosome surface. Lethal mutants were surprisingly rare and of distinct types; one set of mutations mapped precisely to the DNA interaction surface. The barcode microarrays were useful for scoring complex phenotypes such as competitive fitness in a chemostat, proficiency of DNA repair, and synthetic genetic interactions."'
GSE10860_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The structural integrity of the nucleosome is central to regulation of DNA metabolism and transcription. We describe a library of 486 systematic histone H3 and H4 substitution and deletion mutants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that probe the contribution of each residue to nucleosome function and can be episomal or genomically integrated. We tagged each mutant histone gene with unique molecular barcodes, facilitating identification of mutant pools through barcode amplification, labeling, and microarray hybridization. We probed fitness contributions of each residue to chemical perturbagens of chromosome integrity and transcription, mapping global patterns of chemical sensitivities and requirements for three forms of transcriptional silencing onto the nucleosome surface. Lethal mutants were surprisingly rare and of distinct types; one set of mutations mapped precisely to the DNA interaction surface. The barcode microarrays were useful for scoring complex phenotypes such as competitive fitness in a chemostat, proficiency of DNA repair, and synthetic genetic interactions."'
GSE10930_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Total RNA from two replicate cultures of wild-type and mutant strains was isolated and the expression profiles were determined using Affymetrix arrays. Comparisons between the sample groups allow the identification of genes regulated by histone H3 K4,36,79G mutant."'
GSE10930_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of genes whose mRNA levels are affected in a histone H3 K4,36,79G mutant yeast strain compared to wild-type yeast strain."'
GSE10933_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Total RNA from two replicate cultures of wild-type and mutant strains was isolated and the expression profiles were determined using Affymetrix arrays. Comparisons between the sample groups allow the identification of genes regulated by histone H3 K4,9,14,18,23,27,36,79G mutant."'
GSE10933_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of genes whose mRNA levels are affected in a histone H3 K4,9,14,18,23,27,36,79G mutant yeast strain compared to wild-type yeast strain."'
GSE10947_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptomic regulation during meiosis (Spo11Y135F mutant)"'
GSE10947_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We studied the meiotic regulation of transcription in the mutant Spo11Y135F (deficient for the formation of meiotic double-strand breaks), by comparing the mRNA level at time t=1h to t=8h after meiosis induction, to the mRNA level at time t=0h."'
GSE10947_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We studied the meiotic regulation of transcription in the mutant Spo11Y135F (deficient for the formation of meiotic double-strand breaks), by comparing the mRNA level at time t=1h to t=8h after meiosis induction, to the mRNA level at time t=0h."'
GSE10948_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptomic regulation during meiosis (Clb5Delta-Clb6Delta mutant)"'
GSE10948_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We studied the meiotic regulation of transcription in the mutant Clb5Delta-Clb6Delta (deficient for the meiotic replication), by comparing the mRNA level at time t=1h to t=8h after meiosis induction, to the mRNA level at time t=0h."'
GSE10948_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We studied the meiotic regulation of transcription in the mutant Clb5Delta-Clb6Delta (deficient for the meiotic replication), by comparing the mRNA level at time t=1h to t=8h after meiosis induction, to the mRNA level at time t=0h."'
GSE11124_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Hybridized arrays were scanned using a GenePix 4000A scanner (Axon Instruments, Inc.) and fluorescence ratio measurements were determined with the GenePix Pro 6.0 software (Axon Instruments, Inc.). Array analyses were undertaken using the Limma package (Smyth, 2005) from the R/Bioconductor software (R-Development-Core-Team, 2007). Microarray spot intensities have been normalized by subtracting the background and using the LOWESS method (Cleveland, 1979) with the smooth parameter set to 0.33 as recommended (Quackenbush, 2002). Data from four technical replicates corresponding to two independent experiments were compiled. Normalized measures served to compute the ratios of Cy3/Cy5 intensity and the associated log2-transform (denoted log2-ratios) for each gene. To identify genes with a log2-ratio significantly different between the mutant and wild-type strains, p-values were calculated for each gene using a moderated t-test. The moderated t test applied here was based on an empirical Bayes analysis and was equivalent to shrinkage (or expansion) of the estimated sample variances towards a pooled estimate, resulting in a more stable inference."'
GSE11282_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Total RNA samples from three replicate cultures of wild type and mutant yeast strains was isolated and expression profile done using Affymetrix arrays. Comparsion between the samples indicate how mutation in a single amino acid residue in histone H4 (H4R45H) affects gene expression in yeast. Such a mutation in histone H4 is known to generate a specific class of mutants called SWI/SNF independent (SIN) mutants, and the mutants were identified by their ability to carry out transcription in the absence of yeast chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF. SIN mutations are known to affect higher order chromatin structure and the comparative expression profile would help identification  of genes which get affected by such altered chromatin landscape."'
GSE11282_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: mutant analysis"'
GSE11282_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of genes whose mRNA levels are affected in histone H4R45H mutant yeast strains compared to wild type yeast strain WY139. This comparison reveals how subtle change in a single amino acid residue in core domain of histone H4 affects gene expression profile in yeast."'
GSE11377-GPL4131_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The SAGA complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains greater than 20 components that acetylate and deubiquitylate nucleosomal histones. Its acetyltransferase, Gcn5 preferentially acetylates histones H3 and H2B and is regulated through interactions with Ada2 and Ngg1/Ada3. The N-terminal region of Ada2 contains a SANT domain that contacts Gcn5 near its catalytic site. Sequence alignments of Ada2 homologues indicate a conserved ~120 amino acid residue central region that interacts with Ngg1.To examine the function of this central region, we constructed ada2 alleles with mutations of clustered conserved residues. One of these alleles, ada2-RLR, resulted in a ~3-fold reduction in transcriptional activation of the PHO5 gene and growth changes that parallel deletion of ada2. Microarray analyses further revealed that ada2-RLR  alters expression of a subset of those genes affected by deletion of ada2."'
GSE11377-GPL4131_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three dye-swapped, biological replicate experiments were performed for BY4842 (ada2delta) with reference to BY4741 (wt).  Similarly, in the BY4842 (ada2delta) strain background three dye-swapped, biological replicate experiments were performed for a strain expressing a mutant ada2 allele from a plasmid with reference to a strain expressing wild-type ada2 from a plasmid."'
GSE11377-GPL884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The SAGA complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains greater than 20 components that acetylate and deubiquitylate nucleosomal histones. Its acetyltransferase, Gcn5 preferentially acetylates histones H3 and H2B and is regulated through interactions with Ada2 and Ngg1/Ada3. The N-terminal region of Ada2 contains a SANT domain that contacts Gcn5 near its catalytic site. Sequence alignments of Ada2 homologues indicate a conserved ~120 amino acid residue central region that interacts with Ngg1.To examine the function of this central region, we constructed ada2 alleles with mutations of clustered conserved residues. One of these alleles, ada2-RLR, resulted in a ~3-fold reduction in transcriptional activation of the PHO5 gene and growth changes that parallel deletion of ada2. Microarray analyses further revealed that ada2-RLR  alters expression of a subset of those genes affected by deletion of ada2."'
GSE11377-GPL884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three dye-swapped, biological replicate experiments were performed for BY4842 (ada2delta) with reference to BY4741 (wt).  Similarly, in the BY4842 (ada2delta) strain background three dye-swapped, biological replicate experiments were performed for a strain expressing a mutant ada2 allele from a plasmid with reference to a strain expressing wild-type ada2 from a plasmid."'
GSE11380_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from four strains: wild type, ace2 gene deletion, swi5 gene deletion, and the ace2 swi5 double gene deletion. RNAs from the three mutant strains were compared to wild type RNA in a microarray hybridization experiment. "'
GSE11380_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"RNA was isolated from four strains: wild type, ace2 gene deletion, swi5 gene deletion, and the ace2 swi5 double gene deletion. RNAs from the three mutant strains were compared to wild type RNA in a microarray hybridization experiment. "'
GSE11491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Splicing-specific microarrays were used to assay changes to splicing in single and double deletion mutants of non-essential SR proteins, in a deletion mutant of a non-essential component of the nonsense-mediated decay pathway, and in a double deletion mutant of in an SR protein plus a non-sense mediated decay factor in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  The data includes both samples obtained at the permissive temperature and also shifts to the non-permissive temperature for some mutants, as well as dye-flipped technical replicates."'
GSE11491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Splicing-specific microarrays were used to assay changes to splicing in single and double deletion mutants of non-essential SR proteins, in a deletion mutant of a non-essential component of the nonsense-mediated decay pathway, and in a double deletion mutant of in an SR protein plus a non-sense mediated decay factor in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  The data includes both samples obtained at the permissive temperature and also shifts to the non-permissive temperature for some mutants, as well as dye-flipped technical replicates."'
GSE11527-GPL3723_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_overall_design	"High density oligonucleotide tiling arrays were used to hybridize genomic DNA from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae eco1-1 mutant and from spontaneous suppressor mutants that rescue eco1-1 thermosensitive growth. Hybridization intensities at each oligonucleotide probe were compared using the algorithm discribed in [D. Gresham et al. Science 311, 1932 (2006)] to locate the nucleotide changes causing the suppression. One such mutation was in the SMC3 gene, introducing an acetylation mimicking asparagine mutation to an evolutionarily conserved lysine that serves as a substrate to Eco1 acetyltransferase activity. A separate complementation group had mutations in the RAD61 gene (here renamed WPL1), the ortholog of human and fission yeast Wapl. WPL1 inactivation allowed cell growth in the absence of Eco1. Tiling arrays were used again to analyze Wpl1 and cohesin chromatin immunoprecipitates, to demonstrate their colocalization along chromosomes in G2."'
GSE11527-GPL3723_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"High density oligonucleotide tiling arrays were used to hybridize genomic DNA from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae eco1-1 mutant and from spontaneous suppressor mutants that rescue eco1-1 thermosensitive growth. Hybridization intensities at each oligonucleotide probe were compared using the algorithm discribed in [D. Gresham et al. Science 311, 1932 (2006)] to locate the nucleotide changes causing the suppression. One such mutation was in the SMC3 gene, introducing an acetylation mimicking asparagine mutation to an evolutionarily conserved lysine that serves as a substrate to Eco1 acetyltransferase activity. A separate complementation group had mutations in the RAD61 gene (here renamed WPL1), the ortholog of human and fission yeast Wapl. WPL1 inactivation allowed cell growth in the absence of Eco1. Tiling arrays were used again to analyze Wpl1 and cohesin chromatin immunoprecipitates, to demonstrate their colocalization along chromosomes in G2."'
GSE11530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional profiling of Rapamycin treatment in yeast cells lacking the Ptc1 protein phosphatase."'
GSE11530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We are interested in the study of the already reported sensitivity of yeast cells lacking the type 1 protein phosphatase Ptc1 to the drug rapamycin. In order to carry out our studies, we analyzed the changes in the transcription profile that a short-term incubation with rapamycin (200 ng/mL) has in both, wild type and ptc1 cells. It has been shown that inhibition of the TOR pathway by treatment with rapamycin has profound effects on the global transcriptional profile. We confirmed the previously described transcription changes induced by the drug in wild type cells. Under our working conditions rapamycin increased, in wild type cells, at least 2-fold the expression of 667 genes, whereas it decreased the mRNA level of 721 genes (13.8% and 14.9% of genes with measurable expression level, respectively). Gene ontology analysis shows that, as previously documented, many induced genes falls into the NCR, Msn2/Msn4 regulated stress response or Retrograde response categories, whereas genes encoding cytoplasmic, but not mitochondrial, ribosomal proteins and the so called RIBI regulon where largely repressed. Deletion of PTC1 decreases the number of genes induced or repressed at least 2-fold by rapamycin treatment. Remarkably, lack of Ptc1 seems to lead to a general attenuation of changes triggered by rapamycin. "'
GSE11530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"We are interested in the study of the already reported sensitivity of yeast cells lacking the type 1 protein phosphatase Ptc1 to the drug rapamycin. In order to carry out our studies, we analyzed the changes in the transcription profile that a short-term incubation with rapamycin (200 ng/mL) has in both, wild type and ptc1 cells. It has been shown that inhibition of the TOR pathway by treatment with rapamycin has profound effects on the global transcriptional profile. We confirmed the previously described transcription changes induced by the drug in wild type cells. Under our working conditions rapamycin increased, in wild type cells, at least 2-fold the expression of 667 genes, whereas it decreased the mRNA level of 721 genes (13.8% and 14.9% of genes with measurable expression level, respectively). Gene ontology analysis shows that, as previously documented, many induced genes falls into the NCR, Msn2/Msn4 regulated stress response or Retrograde response categories, whereas genes encoding cytoplasmic, but not mitochondrial, ribosomal proteins and the so called RIBI regulon where largely repressed. Deletion of PTC1 decreases the number of genes induced or repressed at least 2-fold by rapamycin treatment. Remarkably, lack of Ptc1 seems to lead to a general attenuation of changes triggered by rapamycin. "'
GSE11530_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The wt and the ptc1 mutant strains were analyzed in this series."'
GSE11561_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"RNA polymerases deal with obstacles during transcription elongation that need to be removed. One important type of hindrance consists of DNA lesions, which are removed by transcription-coupled repair (TCR). To improve our knowledge of transcription elongation and its coupling to TCR, we performed DNA microarray experiments and used the yeast library of nonessential knock-out mutations to screen for genes conferring resistance to the transcription-elongation inhibitor micophenolic acid and the DNA-damaging agent 4- nitroquinoline-N-oxide."'
GSE11633_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Cellular toxicities of alpha-synuclein manifest through multiple pathways, including mitochondrial dysfunction and the inhibition of vesicle trafficking. Several defects can be ameliorated by small molecule suppressors that antagonize toxicity in model systems ranging from yeast to neurons. Connections between these distinct pathologies may be central to Parkinson Disease and to therapeutic strategies.  First, yeast cultures with 1 or 2 copies of human alpha-synuclein were profiled during a time series of 0 to 6 hours.  Second, to investigate any potential rescue of alpha-synuclein toxicity, one of a series of six compounds: compound 1 ((4-(3-iodophenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[h]quinolin-2(1H)-one); compound 2 (4-(3-bromophenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[h]quinolin-2(1H)-one); compound 3 (4-(5-bromo-2-fluorophenyl)-6,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone); compound 4 (4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-6,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone); compound 5 (4-(4-ethyl)-6,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone); compound 6 ((4R)-6-bromo-4-(4-ethylphenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[h]quinolin-2(1H)-one); was introduced and the expression profile assayed at 4 hours."'
GSE11634_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"All classes of RNA undergo processing. The two largest RNA processing complexes are those involved in rRNA biogenesis and mRNA splicing. Because of their complexity and essential roles, it has been difficult to dissect the functional interactions within these machines as well as to identify possible cross-talk with other steps in gene expression. Here we report the results of a high-density, quantitative genetic interaction map comprising 107,155 individual interactions involving 552 mutants, 166 of which are hypomorphic alleles of essential genes (This data is available at The Krogan Lab Interactome Database). Our data allow unique insights into the functional organization of the RNA processing machines. For example, we identify unexpected connections involving a component of the 19S proteasome, Sem1/Dss1. We show that Sem1 has genetic, physical and functional interactions with the mRNA export complex, Thp1-Sac3; it also interacts physically with a putative component of the COP9 signalosome, Csn12. We show using splicing-specific microarrays that Csn12 has an unanticipated role in mRNA splicing. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of this dataset in determining functions for uncharacterized ORFs.  We show that deletion of the uncharacterized YNR004W causes a very similar splicing defect to that caused by deletion of TGS1, the enzyme that trimethylates the caps of snRNAs and snoRNAs."'
GSE11634_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Splicing-specific microarrays were used to assay the changes to splicing caused by deletion of several non-essential genes which had no previously characterized role in mRNA splicing but were suggested to be involved in this process by high-throughput genetic and/or protein-protein interaction data in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The data includes samples collected from some mutants in log phase growth at 30 degrees C and from some mutants shifted to 16 degrees C, all competitively hybridized against wild type samples collected under the same conditions. ."'
GSE11754_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"The transcriptomes of filter cultures of FY4 (a prototrophic, Mata derivative of S288C presented by Winston et al., PMID 7762301) were sampled during exponential growth in minimal media and at 10, 30, 60, 120, 240, and 480 minutes following a switch to media lacking ammonium (nitrogen starvation) or D-glucose (carbon starvation).  Transcriptional profiles were measured using an Agilent Yeast Oligo Microarray (V2), with the zero timepoint (i.e. exponential growth) as the reference sample.  This yielded 2 time-courses of 6 time-points each.  Further information is available in the accompanying manuscript."'
GSE11799_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"We previously described the first respiratory Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain, KOY.TM6*P, by integrating the gene encoding a chimeric hexose transporter, Tm6*, into the genome of an hxt null yeast. Subsequently we demonstrated the transferability of this respiratory phenotype in the presence of up to 100 g/L glucose to a yeast strain in which only HXT1-7 had been deleted. In this study, we wanted to examine the basis of the respiratory phenotype of the resultant strain, V5.TM6*P, by comparing its transcriptome with that of its parent, V5, at different glucose concentrations."'
GSE11799_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Compare a wild type Saccaromyces cerevisise strain V5 strain (=V), with a mutant strain where glucose transport has been reduced by at least 30% in the strain V5.TM6*P (=T), mutant is devoided of 7 hexose transporters HXT1, HXT2, HXT3, HXT4, HXT5, HXT6, HXT7, the plasma membrane contains a HXT1-HXT7 fusion protein. This construct is a combination of a low and high affinity glucose transporter."'
GSE11800-GPL7249_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two samples, a wild-type reference and a mutant containing 4 deletions, were subjected to high salt shock, and total RNA was harvested.  PolyA RNA was purified, and both polyA and total RNAs were hybridized to Forward and Reverse Affymetrix Tiling Microarrays.  No replicates were done for any of the hybridizations."'
GSE11800-GPL7250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two samples, a wild-type reference and a mutant containing 4 deletions, were subjected to high salt shock, and total RNA was harvested.  PolyA RNA was purified, and both polyA and total RNAs were hybridized to Forward and Reverse Affymetrix Tiling Microarrays.  No replicates were done for any of the hybridizations."'
GSE11878_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional profiling of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells comparing the W303-1A wildtype with the W303-1A double mutant for MSN2 and MSN4 during zinc deficient conditions"'
GSE11878_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional profiling of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells comparing the W303-1A wildtype with the W303-1A double mutant for MSN2 and MSN4 during zinc deficient conditions"'
GSE11878_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two condition experiment, W303-1A vs W303-1A delta MSN2, MSN4. Biological replicates: 2 wildtype, 2 knock-out, independently grown and harvested."'
GSE11988_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"The chromosomal condensin complex gives metaphase chromosomes structural stability. In addition, condensin is required for sister chromatid resolution during their segregation in anaphase. How condensin promotes chromosome resolution is poorly understood. Chromosome segregation during anaphase also fails after inactivation of topoisomerase II (topo II), the enzyme that removes catenation between sister chromatids left behind after completion of DNA replication. This has led to the proposal that condensin promotes DNA decatenation, but direct evidence for this is missing and alternative roles for condensin in chromosome resolution have been suggested. Using the budding yeast rDNA as a model, we now show that anaphase bridges in a condensin mutant are resolved by ectopic expression of a foreign (Chlorella virus) but not endogenous topo II. This suggests that catenation prevents sister rDNA segregation, and that yeast topo II is ineffective in decatenating the locus without condensin. Condensin and topo II colocalize along both rDNA and euchromatin, consistent with coordination of their activities. We investigate the physiological consequences of condensin-dependent rDNA decatenation and find that late decatenation determines the late segregation timing of this locus during anaphase. Regulation of decatenation therefore provides a means to finetune segregation timing of chromosomes in mitosis."'
GSE11988_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The chromosomal condensin complex gives metaphase chromosomes structural stability. In addition, condensin is required for sister chromatid resolution during their segregation in anaphase. How condensin promotes chromosome resolution is poorly understood. Chromosome segregation during anaphase also fails after inactivation of topoisomerase II (topo II), the enzyme that removes catenation between sister chromatids left behind after completion of DNA replication. This has led to the proposal that condensin promotes DNA decatenation, but direct evidence for this is missing and alternative roles for condensin in chromosome resolution have been suggested. Using the budding yeast rDNA as a model, we now show that anaphase bridges in a condensin mutant are resolved by ectopic expression of a foreign (Chlorella virus) but not endogenous topo II. This suggests that catenation prevents sister rDNA segregation, and that yeast topo II is ineffective in decatenating the locus without condensin. Condensin and topo II colocalize along both rDNA and euchromatin, consistent with coordination of their activities. We investigate the physiological consequences of condensin-dependent rDNA decatenation and find that late decatenation determines the late segregation timing of this locus during anaphase. Regulation of decatenation therefore provides a means to finetune segregation timing of chromosomes in mitosis."'
GSE12055_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"the ability of a mutant cell to evolve and/or to support a"'
GSE12061_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The Snf1 kinase plays a critical role in recalibrating cellular metabolism in response to glucose depletion. Hundreds of genes show changes in expression levels when the SNF1 gene is deleted. However, cells can adapt to the absence of a specific gene when grown in long term culture. Here we apply a chemical genetic method to rapidly and selectively inactivate a modified Snf1 kinase using a pyrazolopyrimidine inhibitor. By allowing cells to adjust to a change in carbon source prior to inhibition of the Snf1 kinase activity, we identified a set of genes whose expression increased when Snf1 was inhibited. Prominent in this set are genes that are activated by Gcn4, a transcriptional activator of amino acid biosynthetic genes. Deletion of Snf1 increased Gcn4 protein levels without affecting its mRNA levels. The increased Gcn4 protein levels required the Gcn2 kinase and Gcn20, regulators of GCN4 translation. These data indicate that Snf1 functions upstream of Gcn20 to regulate control of GCN4 translation. "'
GSE12138_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Experimental factors:Distribution of DNA Pol2 (epsilon) on chromosome VI during S-phase (with hydroxy urea). Wild type, tof1 deletion mutant, and mrc1 deletion mutant were investigated. "'
GSE12138_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Experimental factors:Distribution of DNA Pol2 (epsilon) on chromosome VI during S-phase (with hydroxy urea). Wild type, tof1 deletion mutant, and mrc1 deletion mutant were investigated. "'
GSE12150_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We are investigating the transcriptional response of Anc1 deficient yeast under basal and MMS exposed conditions"'
GSE12150_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression underlying the MMS response in WT and Anc1 deficient yeast"'
GSE12150_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Yeast strains either WT or Anc1 deficient were exposed or unexposed to MMS"'
GSE12163-GPL7070_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We screened for histone H3 mutations that cause derepression of the uninduced CHA1 promoter and identified six mutants, including one, H3(A111G), that causes a constitutively active chromatin configuratin at the uninduced CHA1 promoter.  We examined genomewide nucleosome occupancy in the A111G mutant and compared it to wild type yeast; that is the data deposited here."'
GSE12163-GPL7070_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Nucleosomal DNA from wild type and histone H3(A111G) mutant yeast"'
GSE12163-GPL7070_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three A111G mutant and two wild type samples were analyzed.  These were compared to three genomic DNA samples (Lee et al., Nature Genetics doi:10.1038/ng2117) to generate the .bar files deposited here."'
GSE12163-GPL7250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We screened for histone H3 mutations that cause derepression of the uninduced CHA1 promoter and identified six mutants, including one, H3(A111G), that causes a constitutively active chromatin configuratin at the uninduced CHA1 promoter.  We examined genomewide nucleosome occupancy in the A111G mutant and compared it to wild type yeast; that is the data deposited here."'
GSE12163-GPL7250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Nucleosomal DNA from wild type and histone H3(A111G) mutant yeast"'
GSE12163-GPL7250_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Three A111G mutant and two wild type samples were analyzed.  These were compared to three genomic DNA samples (Lee et al., Nature Genetics doi:10.1038/ng2117) to generate the .bar files deposited here."'
GSE12170_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Using microarrays to genotype the parental origin of progeny resulting from a cross between S96 and YJM789 yeast strains, we mapped the distribution of crossovers that occurred during meiosis. Knowledge of the crossover distribution allowed us to assess changes in crossover control in wild type and mutant strains."'
GSE12170_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wild type and mutant analysis"'
GSE12180_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of O-glycosylation inhibitor OGT2468 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using strains SEY6210 (wild type). Yeast cells exposed to OGT2468 in YPD growth medium show a significant inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12181_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of pmt1 pmt2 deletion. These genes are involved in the O-glycosylation process. These mutants cells show inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12181_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of pmt1 pmt2 deletion. These genes are involved in the O-glycosylation process. These mutants cells show inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12182_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of pmt1 pmt4 deletion, genes involved in the O-glycosylation process. These mutants cells show inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12182_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of pmt1 pmt4 deletion, genes involved in the O-glycosylation process. These mutants cells show inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12193_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We did transcription profiling on the effect of O-glycosylation inhibitor OGT2468 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using strains SEY6210 (wild type). Yeast cells exposed to OGT2468 in YPD growth medium show a significant inhibition of mating, filamentation and induction of cell wall compensatory mechanism. "'
GSE12197-GPL2529_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"O-glycosylation inhibition and O-glycosylation mutants"'
GSE12197-GPL90_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"O-glycosylation inhibition and O-glycosylation mutants"'
GSE12221_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We subjected yeast to two stresses, oxidative stress, which under current settings induces a fast and transient response in mRNA abundance, and DNA damage, which triggers a slow enduring response. Using microarrays, we performed a transcriptional arrest experiment to measure genome-wide mRNA decay profiles under each condition. Genome-wide decay kinetics in each condition were compared to decay experiments that were performed in a reference condition (only transcription inhibition without an additional stress) to quantify changes in mRNA stability in each condition. We found condition-specific changes in mRNA decay rates and coordination between mRNA production and degradation. In the transient response, most induced genes were surprisingly destabilized, while repressed genes were somewhat stabilized, exhibiting counteraction between production and degradation. This strategy can reconcile high steady-state level with short response time among induced genes. In contrast, the stress that induces the slow response displays the more expected behavior, whereby most induced genes are stabilized, and repressed genes destabilized. Our results show genome-wide interplay between mRNA production and degradation, and that alternative modes of such interplay determine the kinetics of the transcriptome in response to stress."'
GSE12221_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"We used Affymetrix microarrays to measure the decay profiles of all genes following transcription inhibition in four separate experiments. In two reference experiments, only transcription inhibtion was applied. In two other experiments, an additional stress was applied prior to transcription inhibition: oxidative stress (0.3mM hydrogen peroxide) or DNA damage (0.1% methyl methanesulfonate)."'
GSE12240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We designed and experimentally validated an in silico gene deletion strategy for engineering endogenous one-carbon (C1) metabolism in yeast.  Specifically, a Flux Balance Analysis (FBA) model predicted that five genes ALT2, FDH1, FDH2, FUM1, and ZWF1, when deleted in combination, would cause Saccharomyces cerevisiae to overproduce and secrete formic acid under aerobic growth conditions. Once constructed, the quintuple mutant strain showed the predicted increase in formic acid secretion relative to a formate dehydrogenase mutant (fdh1 fdh2 ), while formic acid secretion in wild-type yeast was undetectable. Gene expression and physiological data generated post hoc identified a mitochondrial deficiency phenotype in the engineered strain and regulatory events that suggest a role for multisite modulation—the coordinated expression of multiple pathway enzymes—in controlling yeast C1 metabolism. Together, these results demonstrate that FBA-based modeling strategies can be useful tools for non-fermentative pathway design and discovery in eukaryotic microbes. In addition, the results indicate that seemingly unrelated mutations can be combined to modulate flux through biochemical reactions that interact at a systems level across subcellular compartments."'
GSE12240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We designed and experimentally validated an in silico gene deletion strategy for engineering endogenous one-carbon (C1) metabolism in yeast.  Specifically, a Flux Balance Analysis (FBA) model predicted that five genes ALT2, FDH1, FDH2, FUM1, and ZWF1, when deleted in combination, would cause Saccharomyces cerevisiae to overproduce and secrete formic acid under aerobic growth conditions. Once constructed, the quintuple mutant strain showed the predicted increase in formic acid secretion relative to a formate dehydrogenase mutant (fdh1 fdh2 ), while formic acid secretion in wild-type yeast was undetectable. Gene expression and physiological data generated post hoc identified a mitochondrial deficiency phenotype in the engineered strain and regulatory events that suggest a role for multisite modulation—the coordinated expression of multiple pathway enzymes—in controlling yeast C1 metabolism. Together, these results demonstrate that FBA-based modeling strategies can be useful tools for non-fermentative pathway design and discovery in eukaryotic microbes. In addition, the results indicate that seemingly unrelated mutations can be combined to modulate flux through biochemical reactions that interact at a systems level across subcellular compartments."'
GSE12270_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Cells regulate gene expression using a complex network of signaling pathways, transcription factors and promoters.  To gain insight into the structure and function of these networks we analyzed gene expression in single and multiple mutant strains to build a quantitative model of the Hog1 MAPK-dependent osmotic stress response in budding yeast. Our model reveals that the Hog1 and general stress (Msn2/4) pathways interact, at both the signaling and promoter level, to integrate information and create a context-dependent response."'
GSE12270_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"85 samples were used to dissect the structure and function of the Hog1 network (Critical Samples measured in triplicate).  The overall strategy was to double mutant or epistasis analysis to break down the influence that genes in the Hog1 network have on each other and the genome-wide stress response. This was done by comparing the expression in strains with different combinations of genes deleted and fitting the data to quantitative models.  See Capaldi et. al. Nature Genetics 2008 for details.  "'
GSE12349-GPL7699_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The sequence specificity of DNA-binding proteins is the primary mechanism by which the cell recognizes genomic features. Here, we describe systematic determination of yeast transcription factor DNA-binding specificities. We obtained binding specificities for 112 DNA-binding proteins representing 19 distinct structural classes. One-third of the binding specificities have not been previously reported. Several binding sequences have striking genomic distributions relative to transcription start sites, supporting their biological relevance and suggesting a role in promoter architecture. Among these are Rsc3 binding sequences, containing the core CGCG, which are found preferentially ~100 bp upstream of transcription start sites. Mutation of RSC3 results in a dramatic increase in nucleosome occupancy in hundreds of proximal promoters containing a Rsc3 binding element, but has little impact on promoters lacking Rsc3 binding sequences, indicating that Rsc3 plays a broad role in targeting nucleosome exclusion at yeast promoters."'
GSE12371_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Mot1 is an essential TATA-binding protein (TBP)-associated factor and Snf2/Swi2 ATPase that both represses and activates transcription.  Biochemical and structural results support a model in which ATP binding and hydrolysis induce a conformational change in Mot1 that drives local translocation along DNA, thus removing TBP.  While this activity explains transcriptional repression, it does not as easily explain Mot1-mediated transcriptional activation, and several different models have been proposed to explain how Mot1 activates transcription.  To better understand the function of Mot1 in yeast cells in vivo, particularly with regard to gene activation, TBP mutants were identified that bypass the requirement for Mot1 in vivo.  Although TBP has been extensively mutated and analyzed previously, this screen uncovered two novel TBP variants that are unique in their ability to bypass the requirement for Mot1.  Surprisingly, in vitro analyses reveal that rather than having acquired an improved biochemical activity, one of the TBPs was defective for interaction with Pol II preinitiation complex (PIC) components and other regulators of TBP function.  The other mutant was defective for DNA binding in vitro, yet was still recruited to chromatin in vivo.  These results suggest that Mot1-mediated dissociation of TBP (or TBP-containing complexes) from chromatin can explain the Mot1 activation mechanism at some promoters.  The results also suggest that PICs can be dynamically unstable, and that appropriate PIC instability is critical for the regulation of transcription in vivo."'
GSE12371_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Poly (A)+ mRNA was harvested from WT MOT1, mot1-14, and the bypass strains TBP-Y185C and TBP-F207L to determine the effect of the mutant TBP alleles on transcription.  The reference sample for each of the three mutants (mot1-14, TBP-Y185C, and TBP-F207L) was from WT MOT1 cells.  The genes misregulated by TBP-Y185C and TBP-F207L were compared to those misregulated by mot1-14 to determine which Mot1-regulated genes were restored to WT expression levels in the bypass strains, and also to determine the subset of genes that were newly misregulated by each of the bypass mutants.  Each comparison was conducted in duplicate, employing a fluor reversal.  For each array, the data shown is the ratio of Mutant/WT for each probe."'
GSE12602_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Adaptation to hydrogen peroxide in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is profiled with expression arrays. Adaptation describes the process in which a mild dose of toxin (in this case, hydrogen peroxide) is able to protect against a later acute dose. Here, we study two adaptive protocols (0.1 mM H2O2 and 0.1 + 0.4 mM H2O2) and one acute protocol (0.4 mM H2O2) to identify processes uniquely involved in adaptation. Predictions from these studies are validated in expression profiling of deletion mutants of the transcription factors Yap1, Mga2, and Rox1."'
GSE12602_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Each treatment protocol was examined with 4x biological replicates, with the dye orientation reversed in two of the replicates (no technical replicates). The effect of the pretreatment protocol (0.1 mM H2O2) was also studied in three transcription factor deletion mutants (Yap1, Mga2, and Rox1) with the same number/orientation of biological replicates."'
GSE12733_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Caloric restriction extends lifespan, an effect once thought to involve attenuation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by aerobic metabolism. However, recent evidence suggests that caloric restriction may in fact raise ROS levels, which in turn provides protection from acute doses of oxidant through a process called adaptation. To shed light on the molecular mechanisms of adaptation, we designed a series of genome-wide deletion fitness screens to identify genes involved in adaptation to hydrogen peroxide. "'
GSE12733_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"We designed a series of yeast genome-wide phenotyping experiments using the publicly available pool of 4,831 viable single-gene deletion strains. Each strain in the pool incorporates a pair of unique oligonucleotide barcode tags, which allow the relative growth rates of all strains to be tracked in competitive growth experiments by hybridization of pooled genomic DNA to a barcode microarray. We elicited adaptation using a protocol consisting of a mild pretreatment of hydrogen peroxide (0.1 mM H2O2 for 45 min) followed by a later high dose (0.4 mM H2O2 for 1 hr). For purposes of comparison, we also conducted an acute protocol which exposed cells to the high dose only (0.4 mM H2O2 for 1 hr). In a first experiment, two identical pools of deletion mutants were treated with the adapted or acute protocol, respectively, and directly compared on a barcode array (with six biological replicates). In a second experiment, a pool subjected to the acute treatment was compared against an untreated pool (with four biological replicates)."'
GSE12786_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has emerged as an archetype of eukaryotic cell biology. Here we show that S. cerevisiae is also a model for the evolution of cooperative behavior by revisiting flocculation, a self-adherence phenotype lacking in most laboratory strains. Expression of the gene FLO1 in the laboratory strain S288C restores flocculation, an altered physiological state, reminiscent of bacterial biofilms. Flocculation protects the FLO1-expressing cells from multiple stresses, including antimicrobials and ethanol. Furthermore, FLO1+ cells avoid exploitation by non-expressing flo1 cells by self/non-self recognition: FLO1+ cells preferentially stick to one another, regardless of genetic relatedness across the rest of the genome. Flocculation, therefore, is driven by one of a few known “green beard genes”, which direct cooperation towards other carriers of the same gene. Moreover, FLO1 is highly variable among strains both in expression and in sequence, suggesting that flocculation in S. cerevisiae is a dynamic, rapidly-evolving social trait."'
GSE12984_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"We measured changes in the gene expresion after exposure of cells to two inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway, Lovastatin and Zaragozic acid. Changes caused by these drugs were followed in time after 10, 30 and 60 minutes. We carried out the experiment, in the presence of 25 µg/mL lovastatin and 10 µg/mL of zaragozic acid, since these concentrations did not inhibit significantly the growth rate of the cells. These low doses permitted to reduce the risk of observing secondary effects due to growth inhibition and cell death. For each point of the experiment, total RNAs from two independent yeast cultures were extracted. For labeling we employed dye swapping (dCTP-Cy3 and dCTP-Cy5) and hybridized cDNA on two independent microarrays. Thus, every gene was represented by four intensities from two independent DNA arrays."'
GSE12994_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"During cytokinesis in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, contraction of the cytokinetic ring and primary septum synthesis by chitin synthase II (Chs2p) are coupled processes.  Myosin II (Myo1p), is involved in the actomyosin ring formation, required for proper cytokinesis, while Chs2p is responsible for the chitin primary septum formation which is necessary to stabilize the cytokinetic ring during its contraction. Morphological phenotypes of myo1∆ and chs2∆ mutants are therefore similar particularly in that both are unable to complete normal cytokinesis. A comparison between the global mRNA transcription profiles of myo1∆ and chs2∆ strains was conducted using oligonucleotide microarrays to establish if these cytokinesis mutants exhibited similar mRNA expression patterns and signature profiles were later generated from gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Genetic experiments were conducted to further test predictions based on the GSEA results. As reported previously in myo1∆ strains, a significant number of protein biosynthesis and RNA processing genes that may be attributed to regulation by cell integrity pathway(s) were also down-regulated in the chs2∆ strain. Genes coding for proteins involved in autophagy were coordinately upregulated only in the chs2∆ strain yet an ATG9 genetic knockout that completely blocks autophagy was viable in chs2∆ and myo1∆ genetic backgrounds.. However, the chs2∆ strain was significantly more susceptible to lysis by B-1,3-glucanase than myo1∆ and fks1 control strains. We interpret this result to indicate that these two cytokinesis mutant strains possess different cell wall properties. This interpretation was further supported by the observation that Slt2p hyperphosphorylation was detected in the chs2∆ strain yet expression of SLT2 was not required for cell viability. We conclude that in contrast to myo1∆ strains, chs2∆ strains do not activate the cell integrity pathway."'
GSE12994_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"During cytokinesis in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, contraction of the cytokinetic ring and primary septum synthesis by chitin synthase II (Chs2p) are coupled processes.  Myosin II (Myo1p), is involved in the actomyosin ring formation, required for proper cytokinesis, while Chs2p is responsible for the chitin primary septum formation which is necessary to stabilize the cytokinetic ring during its contraction. Morphological phenotypes of myo1∆ and chs2∆ mutants are therefore similar particularly in that both are unable to complete normal cytokinesis. A comparison between the global mRNA transcription profiles of myo1∆ and chs2∆ strains was conducted using oligonucleotide microarrays to establish if these cytokinesis mutants exhibited similar mRNA expression patterns and signature profiles were later generated from gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Genetic experiments were conducted to further test predictions based on the GSEA results. As reported previously in myo1∆ strains, a significant number of protein biosynthesis and RNA processing genes that may be attributed to regulation by cell integrity pathway(s) were also down-regulated in the chs2∆ strain. Genes coding for proteins involved in autophagy were coordinately upregulated only in the chs2∆ strain yet an ATG9 genetic knockout that completely blocks autophagy was viable in chs2∆ and myo1∆ genetic backgrounds.. However, the chs2∆ strain was significantly more susceptible to lysis by B-1,3-glucanase than myo1∆ and fks1 control strains. We interpret this result to indicate that these two cytokinesis mutant strains possess different cell wall properties. This interpretation was further supported by the observation that Slt2p hyperphosphorylation was detected in the chs2∆ strain yet expression of SLT2 was not required for cell viability. We conclude that in contrast to myo1∆ strains, chs2∆ strains do not activate the cell integrity pathway."'
GSE13098_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcription rate analysis of W303 hog1 mutant strain subjected to osmotic stress"'
GSE13098_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription rate (TR) analysis of W303 hog1 mutant yeast strain growing in exponential phase in YPD subjected to osmotic stress"'
GSE13099_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"mRNA amount analysis of W303 hog1 mutant strain subjected to osmotic stress"'
GSE13099_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"mRNA amount (RA) analysis of W303 hog1 mutant yeast strain growing in exponential phase in YPD subjected to osmotic stress"'
GSE13100_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"mRNA amount (RA) and Transcription rate (TR) analysis of W303-1a (wt) and hog1 mutant yeast strains growing in exponential phase in YPD subjected to osmotic stress"'
GSE13183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparative genomic transcription analysis on total RNA from cells accumulating or lacking AICAR and SAICAR nucleotide derivatives."'
GSE13185_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparative genomic transcription analysis on total RNA from cells accumulating AICAR and SAICAR in a pho2 deletion context."'
GSE13186_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparative genomic transcription analysis on total RNA from cells accumulating AICAR and SAICAR in a pho4 deletion context."'
GSE13187_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparative genomic transcription analysis on total RNA from cells accumulating AICAR and SAICAR in a bas1 deletion context."'
GSE13188_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparative genomic transcription analysis on total RNA from cells accumulating or not AICAR and SAICAR nucleotide derivatives in a snf1 deletion context."'
GSE13219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"We generated a set of 13 time courses by measuring gene expression after a metabolic change. Yeast strain KCN118 (MATalpha ade2) was grown at 28 °C in 400 ml of synthetic complete media with 2% dextrose (SCD) to an OD600 of 0.6. Synthetic complete was prepared using the standard recipe, except 75 uM inositol was included. At OD600 of 0.6, 100 ml of cells were collected by centrifugation and frozen as a reference sample, and the remaining cells were rapidly collected by filtration, washed with distilled water and resuspended in 300 ml of one of the following media: SCE (SC + 2% ethanol), SCG (SC + 2% galactose), SM1 (SCD lacking amino acids A, R, N, C, Q, G, K, P, S, F and T), SM2 (SCD lacking amino acids L, I, V, W, H and M), S0 (SCD lacking all amino acids), S0G (no amino acids, 2% galactose) or S0E (no amino acids, 2% ethanol)."'
GSE13219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"SM1 (SCD lacking amino acids A, R, N, C, Q, G, K, P, S, F and T)"'
GSE13219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"SM2 (SCD lacking amino acids L, I, V, W, H and M)"'
GSE13219_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"S0 (SCD lacking all amino acids)"'
GSE13310_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In cells lacking the histone methyltransferase Set2, initiation of RNA polymerase II transcription occurs inappropriately within the protein-coding regions of genes, rather than being restricted to the proximal promoter. Here, we mapped the transcripts produced in an S. cerevisiae strain lacking Set2, and applied rigorous statistical methods to identify sites of cryptic transcription at high resolution. "'
GSE13350_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae alters its gene expression profile in response to a change in nutrient availability. The PHO-system is a well-studied case in the transcriptional regulation responding to nutritional changes in which a set of genes (PHO genes) is expressed to activate phosphate (Pi) metabolism for adaptation to Pi-starvation. Pi-starvation triggers an inhibition of Pho85 kinase, leading to migration of unphosphorylated Pho4 transcriptional activator into the nucleus enabling expression of PHO genes. When Pi is sufficient, the Pho85 kinase phosphorylates Pho4 thereby excluding it from the nucleus and resulting in repression (i.e., lack of transcription) of PHO genes. The Pho85 kinase has a role in various cellular functions other than regulation of the PHO system, in that Pho85 monitors whether environmental conditions are adequate for cell growth, and represses inadequate (untimely) responses in these cellular processes. In contrast, Pho4 appears to activate some genes involved in stress-response and is required for G1 arrest caused by DNA damage. These facts suggest the antagonistic function of these two players on a more general scale when yeast cells must cope with stress conditions. To explore general involvement of Pho4 in stress-response, we tried to identify Pho4-dependent genes by a genome-wide mapping of Pho4- and Rpo21-binding (Rpo21 being the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II) using a yeast tiling array. In the course of this study, we found Pi- and Pho4-regulated intragenic and antisense RNAs that could modulate the Pi-signal transduction pathway. Low-Pi signal is transmitted via certain inositol polyphosphate (IP) species (IP7) that are synthesized by Vip1 IP6 kinase. We have shown that Pho4 activates transcription of antisense and intragenic RNAs in the KCS1 locus to downregulate the Kcs1 activity, another IP6 kinase, by producing truncated Kcs1 protein via hybrid formation with the KCS1 mRNA and translation of the intragenic RNA, thereby enabling Vip1 to utilize more IP6 to synthesize IP7 functioning in low-Pi signaling. Since Kcs1 also can phosphorylate these IP7 species to synthesize IP8, reduction in the Kcs1 activity can ensure accumulation of the IP7 species, leading to further stimulation of low Pi-signaling, i.e., forming a positive feedback loop. We also report that genes apparently not involved in the PHO system are regulated by Pho4 either dependent upon or independently of the Pi conditions, and many of the latter genes are involved in stress-response. In S. cerevisiae, a large-scale cDNA analysis and mapping of RNA polymerase II binding using a high-resolution tiling array have identified a large number of antisense RNA species whose functions are yet to be clarified. Here we have shown that nutrient-regulated antisense and intragenic RNAs, as well as direct regulation of structural gene transcription, function in the response to nutrient availability. Our findings also imply that Pho4 is present in the nucleus even under high-Pi condition to activate or repress transcription, which challenges our current understanding of Pho4 regulation."'
GSE13350_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild type and pho4 deletion mutant were grown in low or high phosphate medium and distribution of Rpo21 was analyzed."'
GSE13350_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Wild type and pho4 deletion mutant were grown in low or high phosphate medium and distribution of Rpo21 was analyzed."'
GSE13420_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Expression comparison between wild type and long-lived yeast mutant strain"'
GSE13420_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We use a complicated pre-processing method and get the expression differntiation directly. We consider the issue of processing robustness and expression large differentiation. The normalization is carried out in a pairwise fashion. Namely, for each wild type sample (W1, W2, W3), three replicates of a mutant are normalized with respect to each reference. Take sch9Mutant (triplicates: S1, S2 and S3) for example, the normalized arrays with respect to W1, W2, W3 are respectively denoted by S1\W1, S2\W1, S3\W1, S1\W2, S2\W2, S3\W2, S1\W3, S2\W3, S3\W3. We group the wild type and normalized mutant arrays by the reference, and then summarize each group. We summarize the four arrays (the reference plus three normalized) W1, S1\W1, S2\W1, S3\W1 together. This leads to three estimates of expression fold changes of the mutant versus the wild type. In total, we have nine estimates from three wild type references, and we take their median difference as the final estimate."'
GSE13446-GPL7542_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Changes in gene expression in a strain carrying either the Sth1-degron or Abf1-Reb1-degron under degron-inducing conditions were profiled by hybridizing labeled cDNA derived from the degron strain against labeled cDNA derived from a control strain lacking the degron, but grown under the same conditions.  Four biological replicates for each experiment were done using a balanced dye-swap design."'
GSE13446-GPL7550_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Changes in gene expression in a strain carrying either the Sth1-degron or Abf1-Reb1-degron under degron-inducing conditions were profiled by hybridizing labeled cDNA derived from the degron strain against labeled cDNA derived from a control strain lacking the degron, but grown under the same conditions.  Four biological replicates for each experiment were done using a balanced dye-swap design."'
GSE13561-GPL7542_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Tra1 is a component of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SAGA and NuA4 complexes and a member of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) related kinase family that contain a C- terminal PI3K domain followed by a ~ 35-residue FATC domain. We have characterized four alleles with single residue changes in the FATC domain. Of these tra1-L3733A had the most pronounced effects with phenotypes including temperature and cold sensitivity, and reduced growth in media containing ethanol, Calcofluor white, rapamycin, chloramphenicol and geneticin. Tra1-L3733A interacted at normal levels with components of the NuA4 and SAGA complexes, and did not significantly alter histone acetylation patterns. The tra1-L3733A allele resulted in two-fold or greater change in expression of approximately 11% of yeast genes in rich media. Of the 279 genes with increased expression, 175 were ribosomal subunits or involved in ribosomal function or biogenesis. Elevated levels of Pol I and Pol III transcripts were also observed. The phenotypes of the tra1-L3733A overlapped with but were not identical to strains containing deletions of SAGA or NuA4 components or with strains containing mutations in the PI3K domain. Our finding that the double mutant allele, tra1-SRR3413/L3733A with alterations in the PI3K and FATC domains, resulted in wild type growth, suggests a model whereby the FATC domain negatively regulates the activity of the PI3K domain. Expression of genes involved in ribosome biosynthesis, other than the ribosomal subunits themselves, returned to near normal levels in the double mutant strain.  We also characterized tra1-G3745, which contains an additional glycine residue following the normal C-terminal phenylalanine. This allele did not support viability and showed severe dominant negative effects. In contrast to what was observed for tra1-L3733A, tra1-G4745 resulted in decreased expression of genes required for ribosome biogenesis and did not interact with Esa1 or Spt7."'
GSE13561-GPL884_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Tra1 is a component of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SAGA and NuA4 complexes and a member of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) related kinase family that contain a C- terminal PI3K domain followed by a ~ 35-residue FATC domain. We have characterized four alleles with single residue changes in the FATC domain. Of these tra1-L3733A had the most pronounced effects with phenotypes including temperature and cold sensitivity, and reduced growth in media containing ethanol, Calcofluor white, rapamycin, chloramphenicol and geneticin. Tra1-L3733A interacted at normal levels with components of the NuA4 and SAGA complexes, and did not significantly alter histone acetylation patterns. The tra1-L3733A allele resulted in two-fold or greater change in expression of approximately 11% of yeast genes in rich media. Of the 279 genes with increased expression, 175 were ribosomal subunits or involved in ribosomal function or biogenesis. Elevated levels of Pol I and Pol III transcripts were also observed. The phenotypes of the tra1-L3733A overlapped with but were not identical to strains containing deletions of SAGA or NuA4 components or with strains containing mutations in the PI3K domain. Our finding that the double mutant allele, tra1-SRR3413/L3733A with alterations in the PI3K and FATC domains, resulted in wild type growth, suggests a model whereby the FATC domain negatively regulates the activity of the PI3K domain. Expression of genes involved in ribosome biosynthesis, other than the ribosomal subunits themselves, returned to near normal levels in the double mutant strain.  We also characterized tra1-G3745, which contains an additional glycine residue following the normal C-terminal phenylalanine. This allele did not support viability and showed severe dominant negative effects. In contrast to what was observed for tra1-L3733A, tra1-G4745 resulted in decreased expression of genes required for ribosome biogenesis and did not interact with Esa1 or Spt7."'
GSE13615_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The telomeric repeat sequences (TGTGG) are the same at all chromosome ends, but the number and position of subtelomeric X and Y repeat elements vary. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation and genome-wide analyses, we here demonstrate that the subtelomeric X and Y elements have distinct structural and functional properties. Y elements are transcriptionally active and highly enriched in histones, whereas X elements are repressed and completely devoid of nucleosomes. In contrast to X elements, the Y elements lack the classical hallmarks of heterochromatin, e.g. high Sir3 and Rap1 occupancy as well as low levels of histone 4 lysine 16 acetylation, Our analyses refute the idea that subtelomeric silencing is a general phenomenon and suggest that the presence of X and Y elements govern the chromatin structure and transcription activtiy at individual chromosome ends."'
GSE13684_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"S. cerevisiae cells were grown @ 25 ºC to O.D. 600 of 0.3~04, in triplicate. Half of the cells were collected at T0 and half of the cells were subjected to 25 ºC-->37 ºC heat shock and cells were collected after 20 min, as samples T20. Total RNAs were collected and used to perform expression microarray analysis on Affymetrix Yeast Array 2.0 platform. The changes of gene expression upon heat shock were analyzed for four strains, wild type BY4741, single deletion mutants delta-pbf1, delta-pbf2 and double mutant delta-pbf1 delta-pbf2."'
GSE13684_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"S. cerevisiae cells were grown @ 25 ºC to O.D. 600 of 0.3~04, in triplicate. Half of the cells were collected at T0 and half of the cells were subjected to 25 ºC-->37 ºC heat shock and cells were collected after 20 min, as samples T20. Total RNAs were collected and used to perform expression microarray analysis on Affymetrix Yeast Array 2.0 platform. The changes of gene expression upon heat shock were analyzed for four strains, wild type BY4741, single deletion mutants delta-pbf1, delta-pbf2 and double mutant delta-pbf1 delta-pbf2."'
GSE13766_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae hst3hst4 mutant"'
GSE13766_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was extracted from two independent cultures of the hst3hst4 strain and the wt strain, and was hybridized to microarrays. Gene expression levels of each mutant culture was compared to each wt culture."'
GSE13889_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"A new site of methylation was identified on histone H3 K42 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mutations were engineered at this site to mimic either a constitutively modified state, K42L, or a constitutively unmodified state, K42Q in addition to an alanine substitution. K42A. The effects of these mutations on global transcription was monitored in yeast cells whose sole source of histone H3 was from a plasmid expressing these mutant proteins, and compared to that of an isogenic strain expressing the wild-type histone H3 protein from the same plasmid."'
GSE13889_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two biological replicates are included for each yeast strains expressing a specific histone H3 mutant. Three reference strains were also analyzed in the same way which expressed the wild-type histone protein. All strains were handled in the same way. A fresh culture of each strain was inoculated from a saturated overnight culture and grown to an OD A600 of approximately 0.7. Cells were harvested and total RNA extracted.  "'
GSE13894_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"RPL12A/B double deletion strains: Control vs. Wt RPL12B or Mutant RPL12B-R66K Transformed"'
GSE13894_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional and translational profiling of RPL12A/B double deletion comparing control untransformed RPL12B strains with transformed with a pESC-RPL12B wild type or muated RPL12B-R66K gene."'
GSE13924_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Global transcriptional response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae following the deletion of succinate dehydrogenase"'
GSE13924_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Mitochondrial respiration is an important and widely conserved cellular function in eukaryotic cells. The succinate dehydrogenase complex (SDH-complex) plays an important role in respiration as it connects the mitochondrial respiratory chain to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle where it catalyzes the oxidation of succinate to fumarate. Cellular response to the SDH-complex dysfunction (i.e. impaired respiration) thus has important implications not only for biotechnological applications but also for understanding cellular physiology underlying metabolic diseases such as diabetes. We therefore explored the physiological and transcriptional response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the deletion of SDH3, that codes for an essential subunit of the SDH-complex."'
GSE13924_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Although the SDH-complex has no direct role in transcriptional regulation and the flux through the corresponding reaction under the studied conditions is very low, deletion of SDH3 resulted in significant changes in the expression of several genes involved in various cellular processes ranging from metabolism to the cell-cycle. By using various bioinformatics tools we explored the organization of these transcriptional changes in the metabolic and other cellular functional interaction networks. "'
GSE13924_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two replicates for sdh3 deletion mutants. Reference strain transcriptome data: Westergaard SL et al., FEMS Yeast Res 2004, 5: 193-204."'
GSE14077-GPL6727_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"There are 4 different strains: rap1-sil (without the silencing domain), RAP1 (both from Graham I.R. et al 1999) and tpk1 & tpk2 mutants (Euroscarf). The IP was done using an Ab against the RNApol II CTD (8WG16 Covance).There are 3 independent biological replicates of Rap1 and rap1-sil experiments and 2 for the tpk1 & tpk2 experiments."'
GSE14077-GPL8568_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"There are 4 different strains: rap1-sil (without the silencing domain), RAP1 (both from Graham I.R. et al 1999) and tpk1 & tpk2 mutants (Euroscarf). The IP was done using an Ab against the RNApol II CTD (8WG16 Covance).There are 3 independent biological replicates of Rap1 and rap1-sil experiments and 2 for the tpk1 & tpk2 experiments."'
GSE14080-GPL6727_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"There are 4 different strains: rap1-sil (without the silencing domain), RAP1(both from Graham I.R. et al 1999) and tpk1 & tpk2 mutants (Euroscarf). For each experiment there are GRO data (Transcription Rate) and gDNA data used for normalizing the GRO signals. The last number of the GRO filters correspond to the number of gDNA filters.There are 3 independent biological replicates of Rap1 and rap1-sil experiments and 2 for the tpk1 & tpk2 experiments."'
GSE14080-GPL8568_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"There are 4 different strains: rap1-sil (without the silencing domain), RAP1(both from Graham I.R. et al 1999) and tpk1 & tpk2 mutants (Euroscarf). For each experiment there are GRO data (Transcription Rate) and gDNA data used for normalizing the GRO signals. The last number of the GRO filters correspond to the number of gDNA filters.There are 3 independent biological replicates of Rap1 and rap1-sil experiments and 2 for the tpk1 & tpk2 experiments."'
GSE14217-GPL7872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Synthetic lethality is a type of genetic interaction in which two non-lethal mutations acting together result in a loss of viability. Such interactions are important for the insights they may offer into how gene functions are organized into distinct cellular processes. The datasets in this Series represent an effort to identify synthetic lethal genetic interactions in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on a genome-wide scale."'
GSE14217-GPL7873_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Synthetic lethality is a type of genetic interaction in which two non-lethal mutations acting together result in a loss of viability. Such interactions are important for the insights they may offer into how gene functions are organized into distinct cellular processes. The datasets in this Series represent an effort to identify synthetic lethal genetic interactions in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on a genome-wide scale."'
GSE14227_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Time-course gene expression profiles of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae wild type and long-lived sch9-delta mutant"'
GSE14227_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"The SCH9 null strain has smaller cell size, grows at a slower rate and survives three times longer than wide-type yeast."'
GSE14453_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2) maintains transcriptional silencing by inhibiting Set-1 mediated trimethylation of H3K4. Here we demonstrate that arginine 2 is also monomethylated (H3R2me1) in yeast but that its functional characteristics are distinct from H3R2me2: (a) H3R2me1 does not inhibit H3K4 methylation, (b) it is present throughout the coding region of genes and (c) it correlates with active transcription. Collectively, these results indicate that different H3R2 methylated states have defined roles in gene expression."'
GSE14565-GPL1864_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"occurred at the majority of loci even when replication was prevented, suggesting that most erasure results from an active process. Indeed, deletion of the demethylase Jhd2 slowed erasure at most loci. Together, these results indicate overlapping roles for passive dilution and active enzymatic demethylation in erasing ancestral histone methylation states in yeast."'
GSE14565-GPL2625_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"occurred at the majority of loci even when replication was prevented, suggesting that most erasure results from an active process. Indeed, deletion of the demethylase Jhd2 slowed erasure at most loci. Together, these results indicate overlapping roles for passive dilution and active enzymatic demethylation in erasing ancestral histone methylation states in yeast."'
GSE14565-GPL4131_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"occurred at the majority of loci even when replication was prevented, suggesting that most erasure results from an active process. Indeed, deletion of the demethylase Jhd2 slowed erasure at most loci. Together, these results indicate overlapping roles for passive dilution and active enzymatic demethylation in erasing ancestral histone methylation states in yeast."'
GSE14619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Cordycepin (3’ deoxyadenosine) is a biologically active compound that, when incorporated during RNA synthesis in vitro, provokes chain termination due to the absence of a 3’ hydroxyl moiety. We were interested in the effects mediated by this drug in vivo and analysed its impact on RNA metabolism of yeast. Our results support the view that cordycepin-triphosphate (CoTP) is the toxic component that is limiting cell growth through inhibition of RNA synthesis. Unexpectedly, cordycepin treatment modulated 3’ end heterogeneity of ACT1 and ASC1 mRNAs and rapidly induced extended transcripts derived from CYH2 and NEL025c loci. Moreover, cordycepin ameliorated the growth defects of poly(A) polymerase mutants and the pap1-1 mutation neutralized the effects of the drug on gene expression. Our observations are consistent with an epistatic relationship between poly(A) polymerase function and cordycepin action and suggest that a major mode of cordycepin activity reduces 3’ end formation efficiency independently of its potential to terminate RNA chain elongation. Finally, chemical-genetic profiling revealed genome-wide pathways linked to cordycepin activity and identified novel genes involved in poly(A) homeostasis."'
GSE14619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Each experiment was performed as triplicate. We analyzed RNA obtained from wild-type cells, from wild-type cells treated with 40 microgram/ml cordycepin for 1 hour, from pap1-1 mutant cells grown at permissive temperature (25°C) and from pap1-1 mutant cells grown at permissive temperature (25°C) treated with 40 microgram/ml cordycepin for 1 hour."'
GSE14748_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The assessment of toxicity about deoxynivalenol (DON) using yeast gene expression comparison analysis. Two yeast strains, parental BY4743 and PTC1 mutant, were used for this study. SDS was used to raise the penetration of the yeast cell membrane."'
GSE14761_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Checkpoints are cellular surveillance and signaling pathways that regulate responses to DNA damage and perturbations of DNA replication. Here we show that high levels of sumoylated Rad52 are present in the mec1 sml1 and rad53 sml1 checkpoint mutants exposed to DNA damaging agents such as methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) or the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea (HU). The kinase-defective mutant rad53-K227A also showed high levels of Rad52 sumoylation. Elevated levels of Rad52 sumoylation occur in checkpoint mutants proceeding S phase being exposed DNA-damaging agent. Interestingly, ChIP on chip analyses revealed non-canonical chromosomal localization of Rad52 in the HU-treated rad53-K227A cells arrested in early S phase: Rad52 localization at dormant and early DNA replication origins. However, such unusual localization was not dependent on the sumoylation of Rad52. In addition, we also found that Rad52 could be highly sumoylated in the absence of Rad51. Double deletion of RAD51 and RAD53 exhibited the similar levels of Rad52 sumoylation to RAD51 single deletion. The significance and regulation mechanism of Rad52 sumoylation by checkpoint pathways will be discussed."'
GSE14761_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Checkpoints are cellular surveillance and signaling pathways that regulate responses to DNA damage and perturbations of DNA replication. Here we show that high levels of sumoylated Rad52 are present in the mec1 sml1 and rad53 sml1 checkpoint mutants exposed to DNA damaging agents such as methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) or the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea (HU). The kinase-defective mutant rad53-K227A also showed high levels of Rad52 sumoylation. Elevated levels of Rad52 sumoylation occur in checkpoint mutants proceeding S phase being exposed DNA-damaging agent. Interestingly, ChIP on chip analyses revealed non-canonical chromosomal localization of Rad52 in the HU-treated rad53-K227A cells arrested in early S phase: Rad52 localization at dormant and early DNA replication origins. However, such unusual localization was not dependent on the sumoylation of Rad52. In addition, we also found that Rad52 could be highly sumoylated in the absence of Rad51. Double deletion of RAD51 and RAD53 exhibited the similar levels of Rad52 sumoylation to RAD51 single deletion. The significance and regulation mechanism of Rad52 sumoylation by checkpoint pathways will be discussed."'
GSE14761_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strain: wild type, rad53 mutant, and rad53 siz2 mutant (W303 background, expressing myc tagged protein from its native promoter)"'
GSE14942_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"In frozen dough baking technology, baker’s yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae encounter freeze-thaw injury. After thawing, dramatically decrease in cell viability and fermentation activity is caused by freeze-thaw injury. The freezing period is critical factor in freeze-thaw injury, thus we focused and investigated time-dependent gene expression profiles in recovery process from freeze injury. First, changes in gene expression profiles in S. cerevisiae in recovery process from freeze-thaw injury were analyzed using a DNA microarray. The results showed the genes which were involved in homeostasis of metal ions were time-dependent up-regulated 2-fold or more in a series. Then we examined whether these genes were related to tolerance in freeze-thaw injury by using deletion strain. The results showed that deletion of MAC1, CTR1, and PCA1 genes which involved in copper ion transport exhibited freeze-thaw sensitivity in compared with wild type. These genes are involved in copper ion uptake to a cell under a copper deficiency condition or in copper ion homeostasis, suggesting that it may be related between freeze-thaw injury and copper ion transport. To determine the effect of supplementation of copper ion on cells after freeze-thaw treatment, cell viability, intracellular superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were examined by various copper ion condition medium. The results showed that intracellular SOD activity was increased and intracellular levels of ROS were decreased by supplementation of copper ion, but there was no significant difference in cell viability. These results of the present study may suggest that copper ion concentration in yeast cell after freeze-thaw treatment is important to recovery from freeze-thaw injury due to redox control of intracellular levels of ROS, but copper ion did not directly affect cell viability."'
