GSE11734_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"These datasets profile the expression of small RNAs with 5p monophosphates and 3p hydroxyls (including miRNAs, 21U-RNAs) across C. elegans development and in dauer, glp-4 mutant, and mixed-stage wt worms."'
GSE11734_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"1 flowcell each for Embryo, L1, L2, L3, L4, Adult, Dauer, Glp-4 mutant; 6 flowcells mixed stage"'
GSE11735_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"These datasets profile the expression of small RNAs with 5p monophosphates and 3p hydroxyls (including miRNAs, 21U-RNAs) in young adult worms from the wt, prg-1 mutant, and fog-2 mutant backgrounds."'
GSE11735_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: miRNA and 21U-RNA discovery and mutant expression profiling"'
GSE11735_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"1 flowcell each for the wt, prg-1 mutant, and fog-2 mutant"'
GSE11736_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"These datasets profile the expression of small RNAs with 3p hydroxyls (including endo-siRNAs, miRNAs, and 21U-RNAs) in young adult worms from the wt and prg-1 mutant backgrounds.  They were prepared using an approach that captures small RNAs independent of the covalent status of their 5p termini, as described in Ambros et al. (2003) Curr Biol 13:807-18."'
GSE11736_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: endo-siRNA mutant expression profiling"'
GSE11736_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"1 flowcell each for the wt and prg-1 mutant"'
GSE12166-GPL7065_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye"'
GSE12166-GPL7066_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye"'
GSE12166-GPL7067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye"'
GSE12167-GPL7065_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye (wt in channel 2)"'
GSE12167-GPL7066_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye (wt in channel 2)"'
GSE12167-GPL7067_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: mutant strains vs wt (N2) mixed stage; some expts are reverse dye (wt in channel 2)"'
GSE12208-GPL7084_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We have quantified the effects of filtering various oligonucleotide properties by measuring the resolving power for detecting deletions in the human and C. elegans genomes using NimbleGen microarrays. Approximately twice as many oligonucleotides are typically required to be affected by a deletion in human DNA samples in order to achieve the same statistical confidence as one would observe for a deletion in C. elegans. Surprisingly, the ability to detect deletions strongly depends on the oligonucleotide 15-mer count, which is defined as the sum of the genomic frequency of all the constituent 15-mers within the oligonucleotide. A similarity level above 80% to non-target sequences over the length of the probe produces significant cross-hybridization. We recommend the use of a fairly large melting temperature window of up to 10 C, the elimination of repeat sequences, the elimination of homopolymers longer than 5 nucleotides, and a threshold of -1 kcal/mol on the oligonucleotide self-folding energy. We observed very little difference in data quality when varying the oligonucleotide length between 50 and 70, and even when using an isothermal design strategy. "'
GSE13258_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"In C. elegans, a vast number of endogenous short RNAs corresponding to thousands of genes have been discovered recently. This finding suggests that these short interfering RNAs may contribute to regulation of many developmental and other signaling pathways in addition to silencing viruses and transposons."'
GSE13258_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Based on this microarray analysis of gene expression in RNA interference (RNAi)-related mutants rde-4, zfp-1 and alg-1 and the Retinoblastoma (Rb) mutant lin-35, we found that a component of Dicer complex RDE-4 and a chromatin-related zinc finger protein ZFP-1, not implicated previously in endogenous RNAi, regulate overlapping sets of genes. Notably, genes a) upregulated in the rde-4 and zfp-1 mutants and b) upregulated in the lin-35(Rb) mutant, but not the downregulated genes are highly represented in the set of genes with corresponding endogenous short interfering RNAs (endo-siRNAs)."'
GSE13258_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wildtype-mutant comparison, RNAi, Rb, endo-siRNA"'
GSE13918_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The conserved Nuclear Factor I (NFI) family of transcription factors is unique to animals and essential for mammalian development. The C. elegans genome encodes a single NFI family member, whereas vertebrate genomes encode four distinct NFI protein subtypes (A, B, C, and X). NFI-1 deficient worms exhibit abnormalities including reduced lifespan, defects in movement and pharyngeal pumping, and delayed egg-laying. To explore the functional basis of these phenotypes, we sought to comprehensively identify NFI-1 binding targets in C. elegans. We first established NFI-1 DNA-binding specificity using an in vitro DNA-selection strategy. Analysis yielded a consensus motif of TTGGCA(N3)TGCCAA, which occurs 586 times in the genome, a 100-fold higher frequency than expected. We next asked which sites were occupied by NFI-1 in vivo by performing chromatin immunoprecipitation of NFI-1 followed by microarray hybridization (ChIP-chip). Only 55 genomic locations were identified, an unexpectedly small target set. In vivo NFI-1 binding sites tend to be upstream of genes involved in core cellular processes such as chromatin remodeling, mRNA splicing, and translation. Remarkably, 67/80 (84%) of the C. briggsae homologs of the identified targets contain conserved NFI binding sites in their promoters. These experiments provide a foundation for understanding how NFI-1 is recruited to unexpectedly few in vivo sites to perform its developmental functions, despite a vast over-representation of its binding site. To our knowledge, this represents the first genome-wide location study of any transcription factor in C. elegans, and the first genome-wide analysis in any species of an NFI transcription factor."'
GSE14432_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Microarray-based expression profiling of mixed stage populations taken from generation 1,13 and 26 spr-5 mutant animals as well as wild-type animals reveals a large class of spermatogenesis-expressed genes whose expression coordinately increased from generations 1 to 13 and then decreased from generations 13 to 26 in spr-5(by101) mutants. These results suggest that a failure to reset spermatogenesis acquired H3K4me2 may result in the progressive sterility that is observed in spr-5 mutants."'
GSE14432_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"8ug of total RNA was hybridized pair-wise, along with a dye flip, from N2 (wild-type) f1 and spr-5(by101) mutant f1, f13 and f26, for a total of 12 arrays. RNA was labelled with the Genisphere Array350 system."'
GSE14649_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In many species, a dosage compensation complex (DCC) is targeted to X chromosomes of one sex to equalize levels of X gene products between males (1X) and females (2X).  Here we identify cis-acting regulatory elements that target the C. elegans X chromosome for repression by the DCC.  The DCC binds to discrete, dispersed sites on X of two types.  rex sites recruit the DCC in an autonomous, DNA sequence-dependent manner using a 12 bp consensus motif that is enriched on X.  This motif is critical for DCC binding, is clustered in rex sites, and confers much of X-chromosome specificity.  Motif variants enriched on X by 3.8-fold or more are highly predictive (95%) for rex sites.  In contrast, dox sites lack the X-enriched variants and cannot bind the DCC when detached from X.  dox sites are more prevalent than rex sites and, unlike rex sites, reside preferentially in promoters of some expressed genes.  These findings fulfill predictions for a targeting model in which the DCC binds to recruitment sites on X and disperses to discrete sites lacking autonomous recruitment ability.  To relate DCC binding to function, we identified dosage-compensated and non-compensated genes on X.  Unexpectedly, many genes of both types have bound DCC, but many do not, suggesting the DCC acts over long distances to repress X gene expression.  Remarkably, the DCC binds to autosomes, but at far fewer sites and rarely at consensus motifs.  DCC disruption causes opposite effects on expression of X and autosomal genes.  The DCC thus acts at a distance to impact expression throughout the genome."'
GSE14650_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In many species, a dosage compensation complex (DCC) is targeted to X chromosomes of one sex to equalize levels of X gene products between males (1X) and females (2X).  Here we identify cis-acting regulatory elements that target the C. elegans X chromosome for repression by the DCC.  The DCC binds to discrete, dispersed sites on X of two types.  rex sites recruit the DCC in an autonomous, DNA sequence-dependent manner using a 12 bp consensus motif that is enriched on X.  This motif is critical for DCC binding, is clustered in rex sites, and confers much of X-chromosome specificity.  Motif variants enriched on X by 3.8-fold or more are highly predictive (95%) for rex sites.  In contrast, dox sites lack the X-enriched variants and cannot bind the DCC when detached from X.  dox sites are more prevalent than rex sites and, unlike rex sites, reside preferentially in promoters of some expressed genes.  These findings fulfill predictions for a targeting model in which the DCC binds to recruitment sites on X and disperses to discrete sites lacking autonomous recruitment ability.  To relate DCC binding to function, we identified dosage-compensated and non-compensated genes on X.  Unexpectedly, many genes of both types have bound DCC, but many do not, suggesting the DCC acts over long distances to repress X gene expression.  Remarkably, the DCC binds to autosomes, but at far fewer sites and rarely at consensus motifs.  DCC disruption causes opposite effects on expression of X and autosomal genes.  The DCC thus acts at a distance to impact expression throughout the genome."'
GSE14651_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In many species, a dosage compensation complex (DCC) is targeted to X chromosomes of one sex to equalize levels of X gene products between males (1X) and females (2X).  Here we identify cis-acting regulatory elements that target the C. elegans X chromosome for repression by the DCC.  The DCC binds to discrete, dispersed sites on X of two types.  rex sites recruit the DCC in an autonomous, DNA sequence-dependent manner using a 12 bp consensus motif that is enriched on X.  This motif is critical for DCC binding, is clustered in rex sites, and confers much of X-chromosome specificity.  Motif variants enriched on X by 3.8-fold or more are highly predictive (95%) for rex sites.  In contrast, dox sites lack the X-enriched variants and cannot bind the DCC when detached from X.  dox sites are more prevalent than rex sites and, unlike rex sites, reside preferentially in promoters of some expressed genes.  These findings fulfill predictions for a targeting model in which the DCC binds to recruitment sites on X and disperses to discrete sites lacking autonomous recruitment ability.  To relate DCC binding to function, we identified dosage-compensated and non-compensated genes on X.  Unexpectedly, many genes of both types have bound DCC, but many do not, suggesting the DCC acts over long distances to repress X gene expression.  Remarkably, the DCC binds to autosomes, but at far fewer sites and rarely at consensus motifs.  DCC disruption causes opposite effects on expression of X and autosomal genes.  The DCC thus acts at a distance to impact expression throughout the genome."'
GSE14652_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"In many species, a dosage compensation complex (DCC) is targeted to X chromosomes of one sex to equalize levels of X gene products between males (1X) and females (2X).  Here we identify cis-acting regulatory elements that target the C. elegans X chromosome for repression by the DCC.  The DCC binds to discrete, dispersed sites on X of two types.  rex sites recruit the DCC in an autonomous, DNA sequence-dependent manner using a 12 bp consensus motif that is enriched on X.  This motif is critical for DCC binding, is clustered in rex sites, and confers much of X-chromosome specificity.  Motif variants enriched on X by 3.8-fold or more are highly predictive (95%) for rex sites.  In contrast, dox sites lack the X-enriched variants and cannot bind the DCC when detached from X.  dox sites are more prevalent than rex sites and, unlike rex sites, reside preferentially in promoters of some expressed genes.  These findings fulfill predictions for a targeting model in which the DCC binds to recruitment sites on X and disperses to discrete sites lacking autonomous recruitment ability.  To relate DCC binding to function, we identified dosage-compensated and non-compensated genes on X.  Unexpectedly, many genes of both types have bound DCC, but many do not, suggesting the DCC acts over long distances to repress X gene expression.  Remarkably, the DCC binds to autosomes, but at far fewer sites and rarely at consensus motifs.  DCC disruption causes opposite effects on expression of X and autosomal genes.  The DCC thus acts at a distance to impact expression throughout the genome."'
GSE14899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in human brain development and maintenance. To search for miRNAs potentially involved with molecular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of Parkinsons disease (PD), we utilized miRNA microarrays to identify expression changes of 115 annotated Caenorhabditis elegans (C.elegans) miRNAs in human α-synuclein A53T transgenic, dopamine deficient catecholamine transporter gene cat-1 mutant and parkin gene pdr-1 mutant C.elegans strains. Twelve miRNAs were found regulated differentially in α-synuclein transgenic C. elegans, five in cat-1 mutants and three in pdr-1 mutants. The family of miR64/65 appeared co-under-expressed in α-synuclein and cat-1 strains and members of let-7 family co-under-expressed (except miR-241 over-expressed) in a-synuclein and pdr-1 strains. Class H serpentine receptor (srh) family of G-protein-coupled receptor genes were computationally identified to be highly over-represented target candidates for regulated miRNAs.These results indicate that miRNAs are misregulated in C. elegans PD models and suggest a role for these molecules in the disease pathogenesis."'
GSE14899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in human brain development and maintenance. To search for miRNAs potentially involved with molecular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of Parkinsons disease (PD), we utilized miRNA microarrays to identify expression changes of 115 annotated Caenorhabditis elegans (C.elegans) miRNAs in human α-synuclein A53T transgenic, dopamine deficient catecholamine transporter gene cat-1 mutant and parkin gene pdr-1 mutant C.elegans strains. Twelve miRNAs were found regulated differentially in α-synuclein transgenic C. elegans, five in cat-1 mutants and three in pdr-1 mutants. The family of miR64/65 appeared co-under-expressed in α-synuclein and cat-1 strains and members of let-7 family co-under-expressed (except miR-241 over-expressed) in a-synuclein and pdr-1 strains. Class H serpentine receptor (srh) family of G-protein-coupled receptor genes were computationally identified to be highly over-represented target candidates for regulated miRNAs.These results indicate that miRNAs are misregulated in C. elegans PD models and suggest a role for these molecules in the disease pathogenesis."'
GSE14899_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two color NCode microRNA microrarrays were used (Invitrogen) to measure miRNA expression changes in human alpha-synuclein trangenic, cat-1 mutant, and pdr-1 mutant C.elegans strains. The experiment contains four independent biological replicates (worm populations)/strain. Strain N2 was used as reference channel, also prepared from four independently isolated small RNA samples."'
GSE14913-GPL7272_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"C. elegans embryos: control vs. mes-2 mutant"'
GSE14913-GPL7272_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional profiling of early C. elegans embryos comparing control (N2) embryos with mes-2 mutant embryos at different developmental stages: 2E (24-40 cells), 4E (50-90 cells) and 8E stage (100-200 cells). Goal was to determine the effects of mes-2 loss on global gene expression as embryos transit from a developmentally plastic state (2E stage) to the onset of differentiation (8E stage). Our microarray data showed that early-expressed genes remain active, differentiation genes fail to reach wild-type levels in mes-2 mutant embryos at the 8E stage."'
GSE14913-GPL8209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"C. elegans embryos: control vs. mes-2 mutant"'
GSE14913-GPL8209_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional profiling of early C. elegans embryos comparing control (N2) embryos with mes-2 mutant embryos at different developmental stages: 2E (24-40 cells), 4E (50-90 cells) and 8E stage (100-200 cells). Goal was to determine the effects of mes-2 loss on global gene expression as embryos transit from a developmentally plastic state (2E stage) to the onset of differentiation (8E stage). Our microarray data showed that early-expressed genes remain active, differentiation genes fail to reach wild-type levels in mes-2 mutant embryos at the 8E stage."'
