GSE10098_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two independent biological RNA pools of dsRNAiRFL and RFL antisense transgenic panicles were compared with two independent wild type RNA pool in two different hybridizations. Two hybridizations were performed with reciprocally dye-labeled wild type RNA and respective mutant RNA. "'
GSE10523-GPL3776_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Small RNAs (21-24 nt) are involved in gene regulation through translation inhibition, mRNA cleavage, or directing chromatin modifications. In rice, currently ~240 miRNAs have been annotated. We sequenced more than four million small RNAs from rice and identified another 24 miRNA genes. Among these, we found a novel class of miRNAs that derive from natural cis-antisense transcript pairs. This configuration generates miRNAs that can perfectly match their targets. We provide evidence that the miRNAs function by inducing mRNA cleavage in the middle of their complementary site. Their production requires DCL1 activity, which is essential for canonical miRNA biogenesis. All of the nat-miRNAs identified in this study have large introns in their precursors that appear critical for nat-miRNA evolution and for the formation of functional miRNA loci. These findings suggest that other natural cis-antisense loci with similar exon-intron arrangements could be another source of miRNA genes"'
GSE10523-GPL3777_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Small RNAs (21-24 nt) are involved in gene regulation through translation inhibition, mRNA cleavage, or directing chromatin modifications. In rice, currently ~240 miRNAs have been annotated. We sequenced more than four million small RNAs from rice and identified another 24 miRNA genes. Among these, we found a novel class of miRNAs that derive from natural cis-antisense transcript pairs. This configuration generates miRNAs that can perfectly match their targets. We provide evidence that the miRNAs function by inducing mRNA cleavage in the middle of their complementary site. Their production requires DCL1 activity, which is essential for canonical miRNA biogenesis. All of the nat-miRNAs identified in this study have large introns in their precursors that appear critical for nat-miRNA evolution and for the formation of functional miRNA loci. These findings suggest that other natural cis-antisense loci with similar exon-intron arrangements could be another source of miRNA genes"'
GSE10872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Molecular characterization and genetic analysis reveal SA0420 as an early senescing rice mutant with pleotropic "'
GSE10872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"  SA0420 is a stable rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant exhibits multiple traits including a leaf-tip yellowing (YLT), a taro fragrance (or aroma, A), a reduced panicle number (PN), spikelet number (SN), plant height (PH), days to heading (DH), filled grain weight (FGW), and fertility rate (FR), different from those of a local cultivar TNG67. Correlation analysis on F2 progenies of SA0420 and TNG67 revealed that except for aroma which is inheritated independently, phenotypes including YLT, PN, SN, PH, and FGW are tightly associated with each others, indicating a control simultaneously by pleotropic gene. Among those phenotypes, YLT appears the earliest at vegetative stage, therefore may act as a predisposing factor that give rise to other phenotypes. Genetic analysis suggested that YLT is controlled by a single recessive gene. By analyzing the recombinant inbreed lines (RILs) that produce YLT and normal green (G) progenies in a 1:3 ratio, the phenotypes associated with YLT were further confirmed. To investigate the molecular events of leaf-tip yellowing, microarray analyses were performed to compare the gene expression profiles between YLT and G plants of RILs. Clustering of genes according to their involved metabolic pathways revealed that various photosynthesis and carbon fixation gene expressions are lower (~55~75%) in YLT than in G plants, consistent with the observation that photosynthesis rate of SA0420 was only 60% to that of TNG67. Moreover, higher expressions of oxidative phosphorylation-related genes indicated that not only the reduced synthesis rate but also the elevated energy consumptions may synergistically decrease the growth vigor of SA0420. Dissection of the mature leaf revealed that chlorophyll is drastically reduced in the leaf-tip of SA0420 while carotenoids remain stable. This explains the appearance of leaf-tip yellowing and recall an analogy of early senescence. Indeed, many senescence-associated genes (SAG) were found to be up-regulated in SA0420."'
GSE11021_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression in response to Cu stress in rice leaves was quantified using DNA microarray (Agilent 22K Rice Oligo Microarray) and real-time PCR technology. Rice plants were grown in hydroponic solutions containing 0.3 (control), 10, 45 or 130 µM of CuCl2, and Cu accumulation and photosynthesis inhibition were observed in leaves within 1 day of the start of treatment. Microarray analysis flagged 305 Cu-responsive genes, and their expression profile showed that a large proportion of general and defense stress response genes are up-regulated under excess Cu conditions, whereas photosynthesis and transport-related genes are down-regulated. The Cu sensitivity of each Cu-responsive gene was estimated by the median effective concentration value (EC50) and the range of fold-changes (F) under the highest (130 µM) Cu conditions (|log2F|130). Defense-related genes involved in phytoalexin and lignin biosynthesis were the most sensitive to Cu. Our results indicate that plant management of abiotic and pathogen stresses has overlapping components, possibly including signal transduction. "'
GSE11175_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of transcriptome profile between wild-type and dst mutant plants"'
GSE11175_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Drought and salinity are two main abiotic-stresses negatively affecting crop growth and productivity worldwide with largely decreasing crop yields. The understanding of plant responses to stresses in physiology, genetics, and molecular biology will be greatly helpful to improve the tolerance of crops to abiotic-stresses through genetic engineering.To identify the genetic loci that control drought and salt tolerance in rice, we performed a large-scale screen for the mutants with altered drought and salt tolerance. A drought and salt tolerance (dst) mutant line was isolated.In this series, we compare the transcriptome of wild-type plant Zhonghua11 and dst mutants under the normal growth conditions."'
GSE12069_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"gamma-irradiated stable mutant, (ii) the M1 generation of a 100-Gy gamma-irradiated plant, (iii) a stable transgenic plant obtained for production of an anticancer antibody, and (iv) the T1 generation of a transgenic plant produced aiming for abiotic stress improvement, and all of the unmodified original genotypes as controls. We found that the improvement of a plant variety through the acquisition of a new desired trait, using either mutagenesis or transgenesis, may cause stress and thus lead to an altered expression of untargeted genes. In all of the cases studied, the observed alteration was more extensive in mutagenized than in transgenic plants. We propose that the safety assessment of improved plant varieties should be carried out on a case-by-case basis and not simply restricted to foods obtained through genetic engineering."'
GSE12069_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two genetically stable Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica lines: a gamma-irradiated ricemutant(cv. EstrelaA)and a well characterized transgenic rice line (cv. Bengal) were used as well as controls. The stable mutant was obtained in 1988 by gamma-irradiation, had already gone over 10 generations of self-pollination, and had a mature average height about 45 cm lower than the wild type. The stable transgenic line, which was already in the third generation of self-pollination after transformation, expresses a ScFV antibody (ScFvT84.66) against carcinoembryonic antigen, a well characterized tumor-associated marker antigen."'
GSE12069_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We have also used two genetically unstable rice lines: the M1 generation of a 100-Gy gamma-irradiated line (98% survival after mutagenesis) and the T1 generation of an Agrobacterium-transformed transgenic line (both cv. Nipponbare) containing one copy of the BCBF1 gene driven by the AtRD29A promoter from Arabidopsis and one copy of the hpt II gene. We used seeds from the same self-pollinated panicle for control and irradiation/transgenesis. The unstable mutant line chosen for this experiment was the one showing a phenotype more similar to that of the nonirradiated control."'
