GSE10036_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The core components of RNA silencing effector complexes include small RNAs and members of the Argonaute (AGO) protein family. Arabidopsis encodes ten AGOs and complex population of small RNAs. It remains largely unknown how these small RNAs are recognized and recruited by each AGO complex. Here we purified four AGO complexes and identified small RNAs in each complex by deep sequencing."'
GSE10039_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Molybdenum (Mo) is an essential micronutrient for plants, serving as a cofactor for enzymes involved in nitrate assimilation, sulfite detoxification, abscisic acid biosynthesis and purine degradation.  Here we show that natural variation in shoot Mo content across 92 Arabidopsis thaliana accessions is controlled by variation in a mitochondrially localized transporter (Molybdenum Transporter 1 -MOT1) that belongs to the sulfate transporter superfamily. A deletion in the MOT1 promoter is strongly associated with low shoot Mo, occurring in seven of the accessions with the lowest shoot content of Mo. Consistent with the low Mo phenotype, MOT1 expression in low Mo accessions is reduced. Reciprocal grafting experiments demonstrate that the roots of Ler-0 are responsible for the low Mo accumulation in shoot, and GUS localization demonstrates that MOT1 is expressed strongly in the roots. MOT1 contains an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence, and expression of MOT1 tagged with GFP in protoplasts, and transgenic plants, establishes the mitochondrial localization of this protein. Furthermore, expression of MOT1 specifically enhances Mo accumulation in yeast by 5-fold, consistent with MOT1 functioning as a molybdate transporter.  This work provides the first molecular insight into the processes that regulate Mo accumulation in plants, and shows that novel loci can be detected by association mapping."'
GSE10229_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"What are the gene expressed during meiosis pathway in Arabidopsis thalina. Comparison of total RNAs from isolated meiocytes with those isolated from root tips, and those from leaves. Comparison of transcriptomes of normal stamen (ecotype columbia) with root tips and leaves. And, comparison of transcriptomes of normal stamens (ecotype L. erecta) with stamens from sporocyteless mutant (L. erecta)."'
GSE10248_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to study the gene regulation of rootless mutant embryos in comparison with wild type."'
GSE10248_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis pvip1 pvip2 mutant and Col-0 wild type seedlings (10 days after germination) were compared using Affymetrix ATH1 arrays. Roots of wild type seedlings were removed and the vestigial hypocotyl of mutants was cut to control for wounding effects."'
GSE10322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Higher order transcriptional regulation conferred by the bountiful gain of function mutant"'
GSE10322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"In recent years our group has been constructing an activation tag library based on the En-I transposon system which resulted in the identification of novel Arabidopsis mutants (Marsch Martinez et al 2002; manuscript accepted for publication in Plant Phys). Among them the bountiful (bou) mutant showed dominant alterations in leaf size and morphology, delayed flowering, vertically oriented siliques and higher yield. Sequence analysis of the genomic region flanking the transposon insertion in combination with expression analysis indicated that the mutant phenotype observed was presumably caused by over-expression of a gene encoding a yet uncharacterised DNA binding protein. In particular over-expression in the activation tagged mutant seems to cause ectopic expression of the BOU gene in all vegetative and reproductive tissues while the endogenous pattern of expression appeared to be restricted only to root tissue. Over-expression lines in which the BOU ORF was driven by the 35S promoter displayed the bountiful phenotype confirming that the activation tagged phenotype was indeed caused by activation of the BOU gene. Protein sequence analysis indicates a putative role for BOU as a chromatin remodelling factor which in association with the expression pattern suggests a possible involvement of BOU in high-hierarchy order of regulation of gene expression. Hence microarrays could be very useful for the identification of downstream interacting factors or target geneswhich will help us to gain insights towards unravelling the biological role of the BOU gene. The specific interaction to flowering time genes will be studied independently using RT-PCR to reveal the relationship to other genes in the regulatory pathway. As experimental setup we intend to compare gene expression between bountiful mutant and wild-type arabidopsis plants using rosette leaf tissue as source for RNA. Though the BOU gene is endogenously expressed in a root-specific mannerits ectopic expression in the bountiful mutant phenotipically affects the whole plant including leaves."'
GSE10324_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The aim of this study is to identify genes differentially expressed during the transition between dormancy and activity in axillary shoot apical meristems. We have chosen to study this by comparing mRNA populations from the axillary buds of the auxin over-responding, apically dominant axr3-1 mutant of Arabidopsis,with those from the axillary buds of the auxin resistant axr1-12 bushy mutant. Preliminary investigation using cDNA AFLP has been successful in identifying differentially expressed transcripts in the buds of these two genotypes, thus demonstrating the importance of this study, however this is a time consuming procedure. Axillary buds from axr3-1 are seen to arrest at an early stage when the buds are approximately 2mm long and harvested at this point. Buds of a similar size were harvested from axr1-12 plants and the RNA extracted using Qiagen columns.These two mRNA samples will represent the dormant and active buds to be comparedin this experiment. The plants from which these buds were harvested were grown in adjacent p40 trays in a plant growth room. Between two and three buds were harvested from each plant."'
GSE10326_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The aim of this proposal is to understand the impact of the pho3 mutation on the transcriptome.The mutant pho3 was isolated on the basis of a failure to induce acid phosphatase activity in roots in response to low Pi. The pho3 mutant had a P deficient phenotype in vitro and in the leaves of soil grown pho3 plants the total P content was again reduced. pho3 exhibited a number of characteristics normally associated with low-P stress, including severely reduced growth, increased anthocyanin content and starch accumulation. pho3 was shown to have an absolute requirement for exogenous sucrose as pho3 seedlings were arrested in early seedling development on sucrose-free medium and was unaffected by Pi-availability. pho3 was found to be insensitive to high concentrations of exogenous sucrose (10%) but was sensitive to glucose. pho3 also exhibited reduced sensitivity of seed germination to exogenous ABA (abi-phenotype), a response which has been linked to sucrose insensitivity in both sugar-sensing and ABA mutants. Two developmental stages have been selected on the basis of the physiological characterisation of pho3. Seedlings (1.02; 2 rosette leaves) grown in agar and compost-grown plants (3.90; rosette growth complete). Agar will be supplemented with 1% sucrose and 1/2 strength MS; plants will be grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle. Comparisons will be made between pho3 and Wassilewskija (the genetic background of the mutant) at each stage."'
GSE10326_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The aim of this proposal is to understand the impact of the pho3 mutation on the transcriptome.The mutant pho3 was isolated on the basis of a failure to induce acid phosphatase activity in roots in response to low Pi. The pho3 mutant had a P deficient phenotype in vitro and in the leaves of soil grown pho3 plants the total P content was again reduced. pho3 exhibited a number of characteristics normally associated with low-P stress, including severely reduced growth, increased anthocyanin content and starch accumulation. pho3 was shown to have an absolute requirement for exogenous sucrose as pho3 seedlings were arrested in early seedling development on sucrose-free medium and was unaffected by Pi-availability. pho3 was found to be insensitive to high concentrations of exogenous sucrose (10%) but was sensitive to glucose. pho3 also exhibited reduced sensitivity of seed germination to exogenous ABA (abi-phenotype), a response which has been linked to sucrose insensitivity in both sugar-sensing and ABA mutants. Two developmental stages have been selected on the basis of the physiological characterisation of pho3. Seedlings (1.02; 2 rosette leaves) grown in agar and compost-grown plants (3.90; rosette growth complete). Agar will be supplemented with 1% sucrose and 1/2 strength MS; plants will be grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle. Comparisons will be made between pho3 and Wassilewskija (the genetic background of the mutant) at each stage."'
GSE10349_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"au07-13_sqe1 - sqe1 - Arabidopsis transcriptome microarray from wild type and mutant plants. - Arabidopsis microarray from Ler ecotype and the sqe-1 mutant."'
GSE10354_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"flagellin experiment in dcl2-dcl3-dcl4 mutant background-Gene profiling upon biotic stress treatment."'
GSE10354_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"rs06-06_mirna - flagellin experiment in dcl2-dcl3-dcl4 mutant background - Time course : What are the genes (incuding microRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated upon flg22 treatment? miRNA : What are the genes (including miRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated in a set of microRNA mutants? siRNA : What are the genes (including miRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated in a set of siRNA mutants? - What are the genes (including primary miRNA transcripts) that are differentially regulated upon flg22 treatment? 14-day old seedlings (Col-0 and dcl2-dcl3-dcl4) treated with flg22 (flagellin- derived peptide)."'
GSE10357_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ra07-03_aba4 - aba4/1 - Identification of genes deregulated in aba4 mutant or overexpressers. - Comparison of different genotypes to wild type Col-0: aba4-3 mutant, two independent 35S-ABA4 transgenic lines and two independent 35S-NCED6 transgenic lines."'
GSE10399_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Catma1-bou-bou mutant characterisation: Autotrophic growth acquisition in the ABOUTDESOUFFLE (bou) mutant"'
GSE10399_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"rs07-09_bou - catma1-bou - Autotrophic growth acquisition is abolished in the bou mutant in Arabidopsis thaliana. BOU encodes a putative mitochondrial acyl carnitine carrier. bou mutant is blocked at the cotyledon stage. Autotrophic growth of the bou mutant can be achieved with addition of sugar in the medium or in darkness. Moreover, BOU gene expression is activated by light and depends on plant developmental stage. We wish to determine what are the consequences of bou gene mutation at the transcriptome level. We wish to understand whether bou growth arrest is due to the modification of specific genes expression or to a general effect on metabolism at the transition from heterotrophic to autotrophic growth.  - Seeds from a heterozygous plants were grown for either 5 or 8 days after germination on synthetic medium (MS/2) without sugar under continuous light. We harvested cotyledon-stage blocked plants (bou phenotype) from three independent Petri dishes and also green seedlings with true leaves and fully developed root (heterozygotes with a wild-type phenotype) . We also grew independently Col-O plants for 5 and 8 days to compare them with the bou mutants."'
GSE10418_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"rs06-06_mirna - flg22 time course - Time course : What are the genes (incuding microRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated upon flg22 treatment? miRNA : What are the genes (including miRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated in a set of microRNA mutants? siRNA : What are the genes (including miRNA precursors) that are differentially regulated in a set of siRNA mutants? - 14-day old seedlings (Col-0 and fls2 KO) treated with 10uM of flg22 (flagellin derived peptide) over a one hour timecourse."'
GSE10427_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"adt04-03_fdh_drought - drought stress - What is the role of the mitochondrial formate dehydrogenase in the response to drought?								 - Wild type and mutant arabidopsis plants were grown in soil for 6 weeks under short days. Each lot of plants is shared into 2 groups, one of which was watered normally (arr) whislt the other half was not watered for a week (sech)."'
GSE10496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"To estimate the effect that protoplasting and cell sorting has on the expression of -Fe regulated genes we prepared samples as in Birnbaum et al. (2005) Nat. Methods, except that all cells were collected after cell sorting.  Cells were collected from roots that had been exposed to iron deficient (-Fe) conditions (0.3mM Ferrozine in MS media containing no ferrous sulfate) for 24 hours prior to protoplasting.  Whole roots were also collected after a similar treatment regimen with -Fe.  Three replicates were performed per condition."'
GSE10497_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Roots were grown under standard conditions for 5 days then transfered to standard media or iron deficient (-Fe) conditions (0.3mM Ferrozine in MS media containing no ferrous sulfate).  24 hours after transferring seedlings, roots were cut into 4 regions using a razor blade.  The first cut was made ~150 µm from the root tip at the point where the shape of the root transitions from conical to cylindrical (Zone 1).  The second cut was made ~200 µm above the first cut, at the point were the root becomes less optically dense, which marks the approximate end of the meristematic zone (Zone 2).  The third cut was made ~200-300 µm above the second cut, just below the region where root hairs begin to emerge (Zone 3).  The fourth cut was made ~1 mm above the third cut (Zone 4)."'
GSE10501_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"To gain a genome-scale understanding of the role that developmental processes play in regulating stimulus response, we examined the effect of -Fe stress on gene expression along the radial axis of the root. Cell identity is the main variable that changes along the radial axis with the epidermis representing the outermost tissue layer and the stele representing the inner most layer. 5 different GFP reporter lines were used to isolate specific populations of cells from the Arabidopsis root using FACS sorting of protoplasted cells. GFP-reporter lines were exposed to iron deficient (-Fe) conditions (0.3mM Ferrozine in MS media containing no ferrous sulfate) for 24 hours before hand."'
GSE10502_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Seedlings were grown for 5 days before transfer to iron deficient (-Fe) conditions (0.3mM Ferrozine in MS media containing no iron sulfate).  Whole roots were harvested at 6 time points after the transfer."'
GSE10509_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Shortly after the release of singlet oxygen (1O2), drastic changes in  nuclear gene expression occur in the conditional flu mutant of  Arabidopsis that reveal a rapid transfer of signals from the plastid  to the nucleus. In contrast to retrograde control of nuclear gene  expression by plastid signals described earlier, the primary effect  of 1O2 generation in the flu mutant is not the control of chloroplast  biogenesis but the activation of a broad range of signaling pathways  known to be involved in biotic and abiotic stress responses.  This activity of a plastid-derived signal suggests a new function of  the chloroplast, namely that of a sensor of environmental changes  that activates a broad range of stress responses. Inactivation of the  plastid protein EXECUTER1 attenuates the extent of 1O2-induced  up-regulation of nuclear gene expression, but it does not fully  eliminate these changes. A second related nuclear-encoded protein,  dubbed EXECUTER2, has been identified that is also implicated  with the signaling of 1O2-dependent nuclear gene expression  changes. Like EXECUTER1, EXECUTER2 is confined to the plastid.  Inactivation of both EXECUTER proteins in the ex1/ex2/flu triple  mutant is sufficient to suppress the up-regulation of almost all  1O2-responsive genes. Retrograde control of 1O2-responsive genes  requires the concerted action of both EXECUTER proteins within  the plastid compartment."'
GSE10509_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The EX1 (At4g33630) T-DNA insertion line SALK 002088 and EX2 (At1g27510) T-DNA insertion line  SALK 012127 were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock  Centre (NASC). Homozygous mutant lines were identified by PCR  analysis by using T-DNA-, EX1- and EX2-specific primers. Both  T-DNA-lines were crossed with a flu Col-0 line that had been  obtained by 5 backcrosses of flu1-1 in Landsberg erecta with  wild-type Columbia. The ex1/flu and ex2/flu mutant lines were  crossed, and within the segregating F2 population triple mutants  were identified by PCR-based genotyping. For the cultivation of mature plants, seeds of wild type, flu, ex1/flu, ex2/flu, and ex1/ex2/flu,  all in Col-0 ecotype, were sown on soil and plants were grown under  continuous light (100  mol m 2 s 1)."'
GSE10568_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"camta3 mutant versus wild type microarray analysis"'
GSE10568_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: expression analysis; mutant versus wild type comparison"'
GSE10568_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two biological replicates were taken for 3–week-old camta3-1 mutant (HF5 and HF9), camta3-2 mutant (HF6 and HF10) and wild type-WT (HF7 and HF8)"'
GSE10638_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparison of mutant and wildtype samples."'
GSE10643_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcription profiling of Arabidopsis dor mutant and wild-type plants in response to drought stress."'
GSE10643_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ATH1 GeneChip was used for gene expression analysis of wild-type plants and dor mutant under drought treatment (both the wild-type and dor plants were grown under normal watering conditions for 24 days and then stressed by completely depriving of irrigation for 10 days). Two biological repeat experiments were conducted and the raw data was analyzed applying Affymetrix GCOS software."'
GSE10643_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"ATH1 GeneChip was used for gene expression analysis of wild-type plants and dor mutant under drought treatment (both the wild-type and dor plants were grown under normal watering conditions for 24 days and then stressed by completely depriving of irrigation for 10 days)."'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"BTH treated mkk1, mkk2 and mkk1/2 knockout mutant"'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"BTH treated mkk1, mkk2 and mkk1/2 knockout mutant"'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Gene Expression profiling of the Arabidopsis thaliana MAP Kinase Kinases 1 (mkk1), MAP Kinase Kinases 2 (mkk2) knockout mutants and the double mutant mkk1/mkk2 before and 24 hours after treatment with the salicylic acid analog BTH, was measured by hybridisation to an Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip."'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Gene Expression profiling of the Arabidopsis thaliana MAP Kinase Kinases 1 (mkk1), MAP Kinase Kinases 2 (mkk2) knockout mutants and the double mutant mkk1/mkk2 before and 24 hours after treatment with the salicylic acid analog BTH, was measured by hybridisation to an Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip."'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene expression. Combined mutant and treatment study"'
GSE10646_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole Arabidopsis thaliana mkk1, mkk2 and mkk1/mkk2 knockout mutants and wild type plants (Col-0) were sampled in triplicates before and 24 hours after BTH treatment."'
GSE10663_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Comparison of mutant and wildtype"'
GSE10670_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The phosphoinositide pathway and inositol (1,4,5) trisphopsphate (InsP3) are implicated in plant responses to stress. In order to manipulate the pathway and determine the downstream consequences of altered InsP3-mediated signaling, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the mammalian type I inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase, an enzyme that specifically hydrolyzes the soluble inositol phosphates and terminates the signal.  Transgenic plants have no morphological differences compared to wild type; however, rapid transient Ca2+ responses to a cold or salt stimulus are reduced by ~ 30%. To further understand the role of InsP3-mediated signaling in plant stress responses we focused on drought stress. Surprisingly, the InsP 5-ptase plants lose less water and exhibited an increased tolerance to drought. Stomatal bioassays showed that transgenic guard cells are less responsive to the inhibition of opening by ABA but show an increased sensitivity to ABA-induced closure. The onset of the drought stress is delayed in the transgenic plants and ABA levels did not increase as much as in the wild type. Transcript profiling has revealed that DREB2A and a subset of DREB2A regulated genes are basally up regulated in the InsP 5-ptase plants.  These results indicate that the drought tolerance of the InsP 5-ptase plants is mediated in part via an ABA-independent pathway. The constitutive dampening of the InsP3 signal in this system has uncovered novel regulation and cross talk between signaling pathways."'
GSE10672_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"mir398 mutant analysis-Analysis of miR398 mutants."'
GSE10672_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"adt07-03_mir398-mutants - mir398 mutant analysis - Defining new targets of miR398 by transcriptome analysis of two miR398 mutant alleles. - Plants were grown on soil in culture chambers under the following conditions, a day/night cycle of 16/8 hours was applied, light intensity was around 100-150 umol m-2 s-1, temperature day/night was 20/15°C. Plants were harvested 17 days later and RNAs were then extracted. The experiment was repeated twice."'
GSE10673_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"au07-03_myb77 - wt/myb77 - Transcriptome analysis of Myb77 knock out mutant line or of Myb77fragment overxpressing transgenic line. - Plants were grown in vitro on 1/2 MS medium, 3% sucrose, 0.8% agar for 21 days under balance day cycle (12 hours daylight at 22°C; 12 hours dark at 20°C) in climate chamber. The whole plants were collected for RNAs extraction."'
GSE10674_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ra07-02_aba2 - maternal/embryonic aba-1 - Identification of genes regulated by maternal and embryonic ABA - Comparison of expression in seeds (15 days after pollination) of aba2-2 mutant to wild type (Col-0), aba2 (female) x Col-0 (male) crossing, and aba2-2 sprayed with ABA (100 micro M, twice a week)."'
GSE10705_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'ko' in '!Series_summary	"ra05-12_nar2 - atnar2.1-1 - Does the ko of AtNAR2.1 leads to a differential expression in comparison to the WT when grown under high nitrate condition and transfered onto low nitrate concentration? - Plants were grown for 41 days in hydroponics in media containing 6 mM nitrate and then transferred to 6 or 0.2 mM nitrate media for 24h ( short days, irradiation 150 uE). Plants were harvested on day 42 during the first 2 hours of light."'
GSE10716_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"n509-9-Transcriptomic analyses of the N509.9 nodulin-like knock out mutant"'
GSE10716_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"rs06-04_noduline-like - n509-9 - What are the consequences of knocking out a nodulin-like gene? - N509.9 mutant vs wild type in 2 different stages, with biological repetition"'
GSE10717_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"au05-02_fwa - fwa-pollen - Which gene are upregulated in a hypomethylated mutant? - Compare gene expression between WT pollen and mutant pollen"'
GSE10724_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"au05-02_fwa - fwa-leaves - Which gene are upregulated in a hypomethylated mutant? - Compare gene expression between WT leaves and hypomethylated leaves"'
GSE10732_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Arabidopsis tga2-5-6 mutant, Oxylipin treatment, ATH1 Chip"'
GSE10763_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: time course,wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE10786_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"nrt2.4-NRT2.4 NO3 transport mutant."'
GSE10786_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ra04-04_nrt2.4 - nrt2.4 - Transcriptome of the AtNRT2.4 mutant - Mutants have no phenotype"'
GSE10812_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used the flu mutant of Arabidopsis and a transgenic line that overexpresses the thylakoid-bound ascorbate peroxidase (tAPX) to address the interactions between different reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling pathways. The conditional flu mutant of Arabidopsis accumulates excess protochlorophyllide in the dark within chloroplast membranes that upon illumination acts as a photosensitizer and generates singlet oxygen (1O2). Immediately after the release of singlet oxygen rapid changes in nuclear gene expression occur. Distinct sets of genes were activated that were different from those induced by other reactive oxygen species, superoxide or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), suggesting that different types of active oxygen species activate distinct signaling pathways. It was not known whether the pathways operate separately or interact with each other. We have addressed this problem by modulating noninvasively the level of H2O2 in plastids by means of a transgenic line that overexpresses the thylakoid-bound ascorbate peroxidase (tAPX, line 14/2  PMID: 15165186). In the flu mutant overexpressing tAPX, the expression of most of the nuclear genes that were rapidly activated after the release of 1O2 was significantly higher in flu plants overexpressing tAPX, whereas in wild-type plants, overexpression of tAPX had only a very minor impact on nuclear gene expression. The results suggest that H2O2 antagonizes the 1O2-mediated signaling of stress responses as seen in the flu mutant. This cross-talk between H2O2- and 1O2-dependent signaling pathways might contribute to the overall stability and robustness of wild-type plants exposed to adverse environmental stress conditions."'
GSE10812_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis thaliana rosette leaves were harvested after 2 h of reillumination following a 8h dark period for RNA extraction and hybridization on Affymetrix ATH1 microarrays. The entire experiment was performed six times, providing independent biological replicates. For each of the six experiments, all four lines, wild-type, thylakoidal ascorbate peroxidase overexpressor (over tAPX, line 14/2), flu mutant and flu plants overexpressing thylakoidal ascorbate peroxidase were grown for 3 weeks under continuous light at 90 mmol. m-2 . s-1, transferred to the dark for 8 h, and reilluminated for 120 min before the rosette leaves of at least 10 plants per line were harvested. Total RNAs from three separate biological experiments were pooled (= 1 biological rep.) for the preparation of cDNA and the subsequent synthesis of biotin-labeled complementary RNA as recommended by Affymetrix."'
GSE10876_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used the flu mutant of Arabidopsis to detail gene expression in response to singlet oxygen. The conditional flu mutant of Arabidopsis accumulates excess protochlorophyllide in the dark within chloroplast membranes that upon illumination acts as a photosensitizer and generates singlet oxygen. Immediately after the release of singlet oxygen mature flu plants stop growing, whereas seedlings bleach and die. Within the first 30 min after the release of singlet oxygen rapid changes in nuclear gene expression occur. Distinct sets of genes were activated that were different from those induced by other reactive oxygen species, superoxide or hydrogen peroxide."'
GSE10877-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Whole genome shotgun bisulfite sequencing, small RNA sequencing and transcriptome sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Col-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer. A comparison was performed with regions of the genome containing cytosine DNA methylation identified by methylcytosine immunoprecipitation and whole-genome oligonucleotide tiling microarrays, for wildtype Col-0."'
GSE10877-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Understanding the epigenetic regulatory mechanisms that mediate control of transcription at multiple levels is critical to understanding how plants develop and respond to their environment. We combined next-generation sequencing by synthesis (SBS) technology with novel methods for direct sequencing of the entire cytosine methylome (methylC-seq), transcriptome (RNA-seq), and the small RNA component of the transcriptome (smRNA-seq) to create a set of highly integrated epigenome maps for Arabidopsis thaliana, in conjunction with a set of informative mutants defective in DNA methyltransferase and DNA demethylase activity. At single-base resolution we discovered extensive, previously undetected, DNA methylation, identified the context and level of methylation at each site, and found that local composition has effects upon DNA methylation state. Deep sequencing of the smRNAome exposed a direct relationship between the location and abundance of smRNAs and DNA methylation, perturbation of smRNA biogenesis upon loss of CpG DNA methylation, and a tendency for smRNAs to direct strand-specific DNA methylation in the region of RNA-DNA homology. Finally, strand-specific RNA-seq revealed changes in the transcript abundance of hundreds of genes upon alteration of the DNA methylation state, and enabled the identification of numerous previously unidentified genes regulated by DNA methylation."'
GSE10877-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole genome shotgun bisulfite sequencing, small RNA sequencing and transcriptome sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Col-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer. A comparison was performed with regions of the genome containing cytosine DNA methylation identified by methylcytosine immunoprecipitation and whole-genome oligonucleotide tiling microarrays, for wildtype Col-0."'
GSE10877-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Whole genome shotgun bisulfite sequencing, small RNA sequencing and transcriptome sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Col-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer. A comparison was performed with regions of the genome containing cytosine DNA methylation identified by methylcytosine immunoprecipitation and whole-genome oligonucleotide tiling microarrays, for wildtype Col-0."'
GSE10877-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Understanding the epigenetic regulatory mechanisms that mediate control of transcription at multiple levels is critical to understanding how plants develop and respond to their environment. We combined next-generation sequencing by synthesis (SBS) technology with novel methods for direct sequencing of the entire cytosine methylome (methylC-seq), transcriptome (RNA-seq), and the small RNA component of the transcriptome (smRNA-seq) to create a set of highly integrated epigenome maps for Arabidopsis thaliana, in conjunction with a set of informative mutants defective in DNA methyltransferase and DNA demethylase activity. At single-base resolution we discovered extensive, previously undetected, DNA methylation, identified the context and level of methylation at each site, and found that local composition has effects upon DNA methylation state. Deep sequencing of the smRNAome exposed a direct relationship between the location and abundance of smRNAs and DNA methylation, perturbation of smRNA biogenesis upon loss of CpG DNA methylation, and a tendency for smRNAs to direct strand-specific DNA methylation in the region of RNA-DNA homology. Finally, strand-specific RNA-seq revealed changes in the transcript abundance of hundreds of genes upon alteration of the DNA methylation state, and enabled the identification of numerous previously unidentified genes regulated by DNA methylation."'
GSE10877-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole genome shotgun bisulfite sequencing, small RNA sequencing and transcriptome sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Col-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer. A comparison was performed with regions of the genome containing cytosine DNA methylation identified by methylcytosine immunoprecipitation and whole-genome oligonucleotide tiling microarrays, for wildtype Col-0."'
GSE10928_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To identify genes regulated by VIP3, we performed Affymetrix Arabidopsis gene chip analysis and compared gene transcription profiles from wild-type and vip3 mutant plants."'
GSE10928_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We found more than 200 genes misregulated in vip3 mutant plants compring to wild-type plant. "'
GSE10966_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Whole genome shotgun bisulfite sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer."'
GSE10967_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Small RNA sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer."'
GSE10968_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Transcriptome sequencing of wildtype Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0), and met1, drm1 drm2 cmt3, and ros1 dml2 dml3 null mutants using the Illumina Genetic Analyzer."'
GSE11070-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"A link between RNA metabolism and silencing affecting Arabidopsis development"'
GSE11070-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11070-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11070-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11070-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"A link between RNA metabolism and silencing affecting Arabidopsis development"'
GSE11070-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11070-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11070-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Micro (mi)RNAs and small-interfering (si)RNAs are abundant endogenous small (sm)RNAs that control transcript expression by post-transcriptional gene silencing. Here, we show that concomitant loss of XRN4/EIN5, a 5’-3’ exoribonuclease, and CBP80/ABH1, the largest subunit of the mRNA cap binding complex, results in Arabidopsis plants manifesting myriad developmental defects. Through the analysis of ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, we find that CBP80/ABH1 regulates the levels of mature miRNAs, which suggests this protein is a novel component of the miRNA-mediated RNA silencing pathway. Additionally, we show that a novel class of smRNAs are processed from both sense and anti-sense strands of ~130 endogenous transcripts that apparently are converted to double-stranded RNA and subsequently processed into smRNAs, and accumulate in the absence of XRN4/EIN5. Moreover, we demonstrate that accumulation of these smRNAs is often synergistically increased in ein5 abh1 double mutant plants, which suggests that these proteins act coordinately to regulate the substrates from which they are processed. Finally, we find that the parent transcripts of these novel smRNAs accumulate in an uncapped form upon loss of XRN4/EIN5. These results suggest that uncapped endogenous transcripts can shuttle into an RNA silencing pathway where they become smRNA biogenesis substrates. Overall, our results reveal unexpected connections between RNA metabolism and silencing."'
GSE11094_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs are important regulatory molecules in most eukaryotes and the identification of their mRNA targets is essential for their functional analysis. From inflorescence tissue of Arabidopsis, >28,000,000 signatures were sequenced from 5’ ends of polyadenylated products of mRNA decay. Within the set of ~27,000 transcripts included in the 3,500,000 non-redundant signatures, several previously predicted but non-validated miRNA targets were found. Like validated targets, most showed a single abundant signature at the miRNA cleavage site, particularly in libraries from a mutant deficient in the 5’ to 3’ exonuclease AtXRN4. Among the most unexpected miRNA targets discovered were miRNA precursor transcripts that are self-targeted by their own mature miRNA. Although the miRNAs of Arabidopsis have been extensively investigated, working in reverse from the cleaved targets, additional novel miRNAs were identified and validated. This deep and versatile approach will impact the study of other aspects of RNA processing beyond miRNA-target RNA pair analyses."'
GSE11094_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs are important regulatory molecules in most eukaryotes and the identification of their mRNA targets is essential for their functional analysis. From inflorescence tissue of Arabidopsis, >28,000,000 signatures were sequenced from 5’ ends of polyadenylated products of mRNA decay. Within the set of ~27,000 transcripts included in the 3,500,000 non-redundant signatures, several previously predicted but non-validated miRNA targets were found. Like validated targets, most showed a single abundant signature at the miRNA cleavage site, particularly in libraries from a mutant deficient in the 5’ to 3’ exonuclease AtXRN4. Among the most unexpected miRNA targets discovered were miRNA precursor transcripts that are self-targeted by their own mature miRNA. Although the miRNAs of Arabidopsis have been extensively investigated, working in reverse from the cleaved targets, additional novel miRNAs were identified and validated. This deep and versatile approach will impact the study of other aspects of RNA processing beyond miRNA-target RNA pair analyses."'
GSE11119_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of sol2 mutant. SOL2 protein is a receptor-like kinase"'
GSE11119_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"GeneChip analyses were performed twice for comparison of gene expression in sol2 mutant and wild type plants. "'
GSE11174_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ra08-01_cpl1 - transcriptome analysis of fry2 mutants - Compare the transcriptome of 2 mutants affected in FRY2 (fry2-1 and 14-5sep) to control plants. - The Arabidopsis 14-5sep mutant was isolated as overexpressing a NII::LUC construct fusing a tobacco nitrite reductase gene with the luciferase reporter gene. This mutant overexpressed also the endogenous Arabidopsis nitrite reductase gene. Map-based cloning showed that the 14-5 sep mutant was affected in the FRY2 gene. Transciptome analysis was performed on both the 14-5sep and the fry2-1 mutants and their respective controls (either the C24 ecotype containing the RD29A::LUC transgene for fry2-1 or the Col0 accession containing the NII::LUC transgene for the 14-5sep mutant) to analyze which genes are differentially expressed in the mutants versus control plants."'
GSE11217_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"For PPV infection in Arabidopsis protoplasts, 24 gene chips in total were used to hybridize with RNA isolated from protoplasts transfected with PPV infectious clone and PPV deletion mutant."'
GSE11217_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"For PPV infection in Arabidopsis protoplasts, 24 gene chips in total were used to hybridize with RNA isolated from protoplasts transfected with PPV infectious clone and PPV deletion mutant."'
GSE11435_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The transcriptomes of wild type and mutants (G-alpha and GPCR) were compared in the current study. The study was carried out on four whole genome oligo arrays. The G-alpha mutant and its corresponding wild type variety were compared on a single array by means of a dual channel experiment (Cy3 and Cy5 labeling). The experiment was repeated on a different array as a flip-dye replicate and the data from both the sets analyzed further."'
GSE11505_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"A matrix comprising the signal intensity value of each gene per replicate hybridization and the averaged data of each gene generated from three replicate hybridizations of the wild type and mutant samples, respectively, is linked below as a supplementary file."'
GSE11505_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was isolated from three independent biological replicates of essp3 mutant and Wild type (ProβCG:GUS) respectively. Three ATH1 chips were used for the mutant and three for the wild type. "'
GSE11532_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"affy_phloem_ath1 - affy_phloem_ath1 - Transcriptome map of a mutant (versus WT and overexpressor) impaired in phloem differentiation and vascular patterning-Transcriptome map of a mutant (versus WT and overexpressor) impaired in phloem differentiation and vascular patterning."'
GSE11563_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: organ comparison,wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE11594_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from dark grown Arabidopsis Wild type (Wt, col-o) and pif1-2 (At2g20810, Salk_072677) mutant seedlings"'
GSE11594_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Arabidopsis bHLH transcription factor PIF1 has been shown function as a negative regulator of Chlorophyll biosynthesis. Pif1-2 mutant accumulate more protochlorophylide during prolonged dark growth condations, therefore the comparation between Wt and pif1-2 mutant will help us find the PIF1 target genes in Chlorophyll biosynthesis pathway at genome wide level under the dark grown conditions."'
GSE11616_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"rge1-1, retarded growth of embryo mutant  vs wild-type Col-0"'
GSE11616_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The loss-of-function mutation of the RGE1 (retarded growth of embryo) gene, which is expressed during seed development, caused small and shriveled seeds.  The embryo of the loss-of-function mutant showed retarded growth after the heart stage although abnormal morphogenesis and pattern formation of the embryo and endosperm was not observed. RGE1 expression was determined in endosperm cells using the β-glucuronidase reporter gene and RT-PCR.  The differences of expression profile between rge1-1 and wild type Col-0 was examined to know the functions of RGE1.  The result of Microarray analysis showed specific down-regulation of putative GDSL motif lipase genes in the rge1-1 mutant indicating possible involvement of these genes in seed morphology."'
GSE11708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Global gene expression in Atss3 mutant and WT over short day diurnal cycle"'
GSE11708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The Atss3 mutant and WT plants were arranged according to a Randomized Complete Block Design. The plants were planted in rows with seven rows in each flat; two plants of the same genotype/pot. Plants were grown under a SD photoperiod (8 h light/16 h dark) in a growth chamber as described. Eight randomly selected rows were harvested for each time point from different flats. Plant material was harvested at five time points in the diurnal cycle (1, 4, 8.5, 12, and 16 h; Time 0 is the beginning of the light period); harvesting was conducted under a green safety light. Each sample consisted of rosette leaves (leaves 5 to 8, staged following Bowmann (1994); photosynthetically active (Stessman et al., 2002)) from sixteen six-week-old plants. Leaf samples were frozen in liquid N2 immediately after harvest and stored at -80‚°C for RNA extraction. The experiment was done twice and independent randomizations for plant growth and harvest were used for the two replicates."'
GSE11708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The Atss3 mutant and WT plants were arranged according to a Randomized Complete Block Design. The plants were planted in rows with seven rows in each flat; two plants of the same genotype/pot. Plants were grown under a SD photoperiod (8 h light/16 h dark) in a growth chamber as described. Eight randomly selected rows were harvested for each time point from different flats. Plant material was harvested at five time points in the diurnal cycle (1, 4, 8.5, 12, and 16 h; Time 0 is the beginning of the light period); harvesting was conducted under a green safety light. Each sample consisted of rosette leaves (leaves 5 to 8, staged following Bowmann (1994); photosynthetically active (Stessman et al., 2002)) from sixteen six-week-old plants. Leaf samples were frozen in liquid N2 immediately after harvest and stored at -80°C for RNA extraction. The experiment was done twice and independent randomizations for plant growth and harvest were used for the two replicates."'
GSE11762_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptome analysis has revealed a light-regulated WD (tryptophan and aspartate)-containing protein, LWD1. LWD1 and LWD2 share greater than 90% amino acid sequence homology. The lack of phenotype changes in the lwd1 or lwd2 single mutant implies that the proteins function redundantly. The lwd1lwd2 double mutant, however, has an early flowering phenotype under both long-day (LD) and short-day (SD) conditions. Functional complementation experiment revealed that LWDs are indeed responsible for the defect in photoperiod sensing in lwd1lwd2 double mutant plants. The expression of LWD1 exhibits a diurnal pattern and peaks before dawn. The period length of oscillator (CCA1, LHY, TOC1 and ELF4) and output (CCR2 and CAB2) genes in the lwd1lwd2 double mutant is significantly shorter than that in wild-type Arabidopsis under free running condition. Under entrainment conditions, the expression phase of oscillator (CCA1, LHY, TOC1 and ELF4) and output (GI, FKF1, CDF1, CO and FT) genes shifts ~3 hr forward in the lwd1lwd2 double mutant. Our data indicated that the early flowering phenotype in lwd1lwd2 plants is contributed by the significant phase shift of CO and, therefore, an increased expression of FT before dusk under SD conditions. Our data imply that LWD1/LWD2 proteins function in close proximity to the circadian oscillators for the regulation of photoperiod sensing."'
GSE11762_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two biological replicates were performed to examine the differential gene expression between wild-type and lwd1lwd2 double mutant. The plants were grown under 12 h L/ 12 h D for 31 days before harvesting their above ground tissues at ZT5-9."'
GSE11793_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ra06-04_bos1 - erwinia chrysanthemi treatments - BOS1 signaling pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana / Erwinia chrysanthemi interaction - Comparison of 4 transcriptoms : Wt Arabidopsis ecotype infected by Wt Erwinia chrysanthemi strain, bos1 Arabidopsis mutant infected by Wt Erwinia chrysanthemi strain, Wt Arabidopsis ecotype infected by BOS1-non inducing pelBC Erwinia chrysanthemi mutant, Wt Arabidopsis ecotype buffer inoculated. Experiments were repeated 3 times."'
GSE11852_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Effect of uniconazole on wt and pkl mutant germinating seeds"'
GSE11852_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Relative expression data from germinating seeds of Columbia (wt), the pkl mutant (pkl), Columbia plus uniconazole-P (Uwt) and the pkl-mutant plus uniconazole-P (Upkl). "'
GSE12029_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"2 replicates for WT (Col-0) were compared to 2 replicates for nfya5 (mutant)"'
GSE12137_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The pER8-LEC1 transgenic seedlings were germinated and grown in the presence of 10 µM estradiol for 4 days. The control sample was germinated and grown under the identical conditions without estradiol but containing 0.1% DMSO. Total RNA was prepared from fresh or frozen plant materials using the RNAeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen China, Beijing). The first strand cDNA was synthesized, and then hybridized with the ATH1 oligonucleotide chips as described by the manufacture’s instructions (Affymetrix). The microarray hybridization data were collected and analyzed using related R (http://www.r-project.org/) packages provided by Bioconductor (http://www.biocoductor.org/). In brief, genes differentially expressed between wild type and mutant plants were selected by first removing “absent” genes which were never detected to be expressed in the experiments, then a two-side t-test was applied to remaining genes in order to test the expression difference between wide type and mutant plants. To avoid multiple testing problems, raw p-values were then adjusted into False Discovery Rate (FDR) using Benjamini and Hochberg approach. Finally, differentially expressed genes were defined as those FDR less than 0.2. Functional analysis of differentially expressed genes was carried out using the biological process category of Arabidopsis Gene Ontology. The hierarchical map of GO annotation was constructed according to the ontology tree provided by the Gene Ontology website (http://www.geneontology.com) as described previously (Zheng and Wang, 2008). Ontology categories that are significantly enriched among differentially expressed genes (hypergeometric test and FDR less than 0.1) were displayed as boxes in the map."'
GSE12212_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Eukaryotic chromatin is separated into functional domains differentiated by posttranslational histone modifications, histone variants, and DNA methylation.  Methylation is associated with repression of transcriptional initiation in plants and animals, and is frequently found in transposable elements. Proper methylation patterns are critical for eukaryotic development, and aberrant methylation-induced silencing of tumor suppressor genes is a common feature of human cancer.  In contrast to methylation, the histone variant H2A.Z is preferentially deposited by the Swr1 ATPase complex near 5' ends of genes where it promotes transcriptional competence.  How DNA methylation and H2A.Z influence transcription remains largely unknown.  Here we show that in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, regions of DNA methylation are quantitatively deficient in H2A.Z.  Exclusion of H2A.Z is seen at sites of DNA methylation in the bodies of actively transcribed genes and in methylated transposons.  Mutation of the MET1 DNA methyltransferase, which causes both losses and gains of DNA methylation, engenders opposite changes in H2A.Z deposition, while mutation of the PIE1 subunit of the Swr1 complex that deposits H2A.Z17 leads to genome-wide hypermethylation.  Our findings indicate that DNA methylation can influence chromatin structure and effect gene silencing by excluding H2A.Z, and that H2A.Z protects genes from DNA methylation."'
GSE12212_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Eukaryotic chromatin is separated into functional domains differentiated by posttranslational histone modifications, histone variants, and DNA methylation.  Methylation is associated with repression of transcriptional initiation in plants and animals, and is frequently found in transposable elements. Proper methylation patterns are critical for eukaryotic development, and aberrant methylation-induced silencing of tumor suppressor genes is a common feature of human cancer.  In contrast to methylation, the histone variant H2A.Z is preferentially deposited by the Swr1 ATPase complex near 5' ends of genes where it promotes transcriptional competence.  How DNA methylation and H2A.Z influence transcription remains largely unknown.  Here we show that in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, regions of DNA methylation are quantitatively deficient in H2A.Z.  Exclusion of H2A.Z is seen at sites of DNA methylation in the bodies of actively transcribed genes and in methylated transposons.  Mutation of the MET1 DNA methyltransferase, which causes both losses and gains of DNA methylation, engenders opposite changes in H2A.Z deposition, while mutation of the PIE1 subunit of the Swr1 complex that deposits H2A.Z17 leads to genome-wide hypermethylation.  Our findings indicate that DNA methylation can influence chromatin structure and effect gene silencing by excluding H2A.Z, and that H2A.Z protects genes from DNA methylation."'
GSE12325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Global gene expression analysis of Arabidopsis ppi2-1 mutant"'
GSE12325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"This study aims at investigating the gene expression profile of Arabidopsis ppi2-1 mutant.  Using Super-SAGE, we compared the gene expression profile of ppi2-1 mutant with that of wild-type Arabidopsis. "'
GSE12325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"To obtain the SuperSAGE libraries, we followed the original SuperSAGE protocol described by Matsumura and colleagues (Matsumura et al., 2003) with some modification.  Total RNA was isolated from the 3rd to 6th leaves of Ws and the ppi2-1 mutant using RNAiso reagent.  The SuperSAGE library was directly sequenced with a large-scale pyrosequencing method."'
GSE12401_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcript abundance data from seedlings of wild-type Ws and ged1 (greening after extended darkness 1) mutant"'
GSE12401_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"An Arabidopsis mutant showing an altered ability to green on illumination after extended periods of darkness has been isolated in a screen for genomes uncoupled (gun) mutants. Following illumination for 24 h, 10-day-old dark-grown mutant seedlings accumulated 5 times more chlorophyll than wild-type seedlings and this was correlated with differences in plastid morphology observed by transmission electron microscopy. The mutant has been named greening after extended darkness 1 (ged1). We used microarrays to detail the global profiles of transcript abundances in the mutant in comparison to the wild type. Microarray analysis showed much lower amounts of transcripts of genes encoding seed storage proteins, oleosins and late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins in 7-day-old seedlings of ged1 compared to wild type. RNA-gel-blot analyses confirmed very low levels of transcripts of seed protein genes in ged1 seedlings grown for 2-10 days in the dark, and showed higher amounts of transcripts of photosynthesis-related genes in illuminated 10-day-old dark-grown ged1 seedlings compared to wild type. "'
GSE12522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Comparison of gene expression between wild type and gl3 egl3 trichomeless mutant green seedling tissues"'
GSE12522_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We compared the gene expression between the wild type and trichome mutant, gl3 egl3 using green tissue (not include root)."'
GSE12619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Heat shock response of til1-1 mutant plants"'
GSE12619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Several lipocalin genes from higher plants were shown to be responsive to both high and low temperature stresses and have been named as temperature-induced lipocalin (Til).  In this study, a reverse genetic approach was taken to elucidate the role of Arabidopsis Til1 (At5g58070) in thermotolerance.  We showed that Til1 proteins was constitutively expressed and increased significantly after heat shock treatment.  A T-DNA knockout line of Til1, designated as til1-1, could not produce Til1 and showed severe defects in basal and acquired thermotolerance.  Introducing a wild type copy of Til1 gene into til1-1 complemented the mutant phenotype.  Over-expression of Til1 in the wild type plant did not enhance thermotolerance.  Til1 is peripherally associated with plasma membrane, suggesting a regulatory or protective role of this protein in membrane function.  Transcriptomic analysis showed that the heat shock response in til1-1 was not altered as compared to the wild type plants.  The temperature threshold for heat shock protein induction was not affected by the level of Til1.  Ion leakage analysis revealed no significant difference in membrane stability between the wild type and til1-1 seedlings.  These results suggested that Til1 is not involved in regulating membrane fluidity or stability.  Nevertheless, the level of malondialdehyde was significantly higher in til1-1 than in the wild type after severe heat treatment.  The mutant plants were also more sensitive than the wild type to tert-butyl hydroperoxide, a reagent that induces lipid peroxidation.  Taken together, our data indicate that Til1 is an essential component for thermotolerance probably by acting against lipid peroxidation induced by severe heat stress. "'
GSE12619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Several lipocalin genes from higher plants were shown to be responsive to both high and low temperature stresses and have been named as temperature-induced lipocalin (Til).  In this study, a reverse genetic approach was taken to elucidate the role of Arabidopsis Til1 (At5g58070) in thermotolerance.  We showed that Til1 proteins was constitutively expressed and increased significantly after heat shock treatment.  A T-DNA knockout line of Til1, designated as til1-1, could not produce Til1 and showed severe defects in basal and acquired thermotolerance.  Introducing a wild type copy of Til1 gene into til1-1 complemented the mutant phenotype.  Over-expression of Til1 in the wild type plant did not enhance thermotolerance.  Til1 is peripherally associated with plasma membrane, suggesting a regulatory or protective role of this protein in membrane function.  Transcriptomic analysis showed that the heat shock response in til1-1 was not altered as compared to the wild type plants.  The temperature threshold for heat shock protein induction was not affected by the level of Til1.  Ion leakage analysis revealed no significant difference in membrane stability between the wild type and til1-1 seedlings.  These results suggested that Til1 is not involved in regulating membrane fluidity or stability.  Nevertheless, the level of malondialdehyde was significantly higher in til1-1 than in the wild type after severe heat treatment.  The mutant plants were also more sensitive than the wild type to tert-butyl hydroperoxide, a reagent that induces lipid peroxidation.  Taken together, our data indicate that Til1 is an essential component for thermotolerance probably by acting against lipid peroxidation induced by severe heat stress. "'
GSE12619_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was isolated from the seedlings of 7-d old wild-type and til1-1 mutant seedlings (a pool of about 100 plants per treatment in duplicates) harvested immediately after heat shock treatment. In this experiment, total 8 chips were used, 1 each for 2 biological replicates of the control and HS-treated samples for the wild type and mutant plants."'
GSE12715_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Our current study showed that the ABA and ethylene signal transduction pathways function in parallel and have antagonistic interaction during seed germination and early seedling growth. To further address the possible mechanism by which these two hormones crosstalk, microarray analysis was performed. By microarray analysis we found that an ACC oxidase (ACO) was significantly up-regulated in the aba2 mutant, whereas the 9-CIS-EPOXYCAROTENOID DIOXYGENASE (NCED3) gene in ein2, and both the ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE1 (ABI1) and cytochrome P450, family 707, subfamily A, polypeptide 2 (CYP707A2) genes in etr1-1 were up- and down-regulated, respectively. These data further suggest that ABA and ethylene may control the hormonal biosynthesis, catabolism or signaling of each other to enhance their antagonistic effects upon seed germination and early seedling growth."'
GSE12856_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Penetration resistance: Wildtype and ataf1-1 mutant response to Bgh 12 h after inoculation, 2*2 factorial design"'
GSE12856_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Arabidopsis is a non-host to the biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh), effectively hindering Bgh ingress to the epidermal cells by deposition of callosic papillae formations, i.e. penetration resistance. To better understand the transcriptional changes in Arabidopsis towards Bgh, we compared un-inoculated and inoculated wild-type Arabidopsis samples, with those an ATAF1 mutant allele, compromised in penetration resistance. The experiment included sampling of 8 rosettes for each replicate sample from 6-weeks old plants, 12 hrs after inoculation. A total of 12 biolocigal replicates were sampled with three replicates from each of the four blocks (Wild-type, ataf1-1, Bgh, control).   ****[PLEXdb(http://www.plexdb.org) has submitted this series at GEO on behalf of the original contributor,  Michael Krogh Jensen.  The equivalent experiment is AT31 at PLEXdb.]"'
GSE12856_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"genotype: Wild-type Arabidopsis, ecotype Col-0 - treated or untreated: Un-inoculated(3-replications);  genotype: Wild-type Arabidopsis, ecotype Col-0 - treated or untreated: Bgh inoculated(3-replications);  genotype: ataf1-1 mutant, ecotype Col-0 - treated or untreated: Un-inoculated(3-replications);  genotype: ataf1-1 mutant, ecotype Col-0 - treated or untreated: Bgh inoculated(3-replications)"'
GSE12887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of the genome wide response of wild type and two mutant arabidopsis thaliana seedlings to norflurazon"'
GSE12887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Genome wide response to inhibition of chloroplast development"'
GSE12911_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression comparison between Arabidopsis wild type (Col) and stomata mutant"'
GSE12911_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"As the gate for gas exchange and water vapor, stomata play an essential role in plant development. It has been a long time that many research focus on how the opening and closing of stomata is controlled. Until recently, studies on how stomata are formed in Arabidopsis just emerge. With a cluster of guard cells in one stomate in flp-1/myb88 mutant, it will be great interest to understand how FLP/MYB88 control stomata development. By taking advantaging of microarray technology, we intend to study a set of genes regulated by FLP/MYB88, which will facilitate us to better explore the biological functions of FLP/MYB88 in stomata development, even in the biotic or abiotic stresses."'
GSE12911_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"By comparing the gene expression differences between the wild type and stomata mutant--flp-1/myb88, we are trying to see which genes' transcripts are affected in flp-1/myb88 mutant."'
GSE12913_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"One of the key innovations of the flowering plants is their female reproductive organ, the carpel. Here we show that a mechanism controlling carpel margin development in the model flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana was recruited from light-regulated processes. This recruitment followed the loss from the basic Helix-Loop-Helix transcription factor SPATULA (SPT) of a domain previously responsible for its negative regulation by phytochrome. We propose that the loss of this domain was a prerequisite for the light-independent expression in female reproductive tissues of a genetic module that also promotes shade avoidance responses in vegetative organs. Striking evidence for this proposition is provided by the restoration of wild type carpel development to spt mutants by low red/far-red light ratios, simulating vegetation shade, which we show to occur via PHYB, PIF4 and PIF5. Our data illustrate the potential of modular evolutionary events to generate rapid morphological change, and thereby provide a molecular basis for neo-Darwinian theories that describe this non-gradualist phenomenon. Furthermore, the effects shown here of light quality perception on carpel development lead us to speculate on the potential role of light-regulated mechanisms in plant organs that, like the carpel, form within the shade of surrounding tissues."'
GSE12914_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"crc1 mutant-Modelling the Transcriptional Network in Arabidopsis Fruit Development."'
GSE12914_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"gen45-carpel_development - crc1 mutant - Identification of target genes from three transcription factors involved in gynoecium development - Comparison between the wild type Ler and crc1 mutant."'
GSE13092-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression data for the mom1-2 mutant of Arabidopsis"'
GSE13092-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Heterochromatin is an inert region in the genome and composed of mainly remnants of transposons and repetitive elements. In Arabidopsis, the major heterchromatin regions are present at around centromeres (pericentromeric regions) and at a region on the short arm of chromosome 4 (heterochromatin knob). Histones and DNAs in heterochromatin have characteristic features with abundant H3H9me2 and cytosine methylation, respectively. Here, by using a genome tiling array, we showed that a subset of heterochromatin loci are silenced by the action of Morpheus' molecule 1 (MOM1) that is an epigeneic regulator for transcriptional gene silencing independent of global DNA and histone modification. Most of the up-regulated loci in the mom1 mutant carried sequences related to transposable elements but none of them was annotated as functional transposons. No specific subclass of transposons was targeted by MOM1 and loci that were unrelated to transposons but flanked by short tandem repeats were also shown to be under the control of MOM1. The results suggest the presence of an unknown level of regulatory network maintaining the silent state of heterochromain in the genome."'
GSE13092-GPL10977_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Heterochromatin is an inert region in the genome and composed of mainly remnants of transposons and repetitive elements. In Arabidopsis, the major heterchromatin regions are present at around centromeres (pericentromeric regions) and at a region on the short arm of chromosome 4 (heterochromatin knob). Histones and DNAs in heterochromatin have characteristic features with abundant H3H9me2 and cytosine methylation, respectively. Here, by using a genome tiling array, we showed that a subset of heterochromatin loci are silenced by the action of Morpheus' molecule 1 (MOM1) that is an epigeneic regulator for transcriptional gene silencing independent of global DNA and histone modification. Most of the up-regulated loci in the mom1 mutant carried sequences related to transposable elements but none of them was annotated as functional transposons. No specific subclass of transposons was targeted by MOM1 and loci that were unrelated to transposons but flanked by short tandem repeats were also shown to be under the control of MOM1. The results suggest the presence of an unknown level of regulatory network maintaining the silent state of heterochromain in the genome."'
GSE13092-GPL10978_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression data for the mom1-2 mutant of Arabidopsis"'
GSE13092-GPL10978_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Heterochromatin is an inert region in the genome and composed of mainly remnants of transposons and repetitive elements. In Arabidopsis, the major heterchromatin regions are present at around centromeres (pericentromeric regions) and at a region on the short arm of chromosome 4 (heterochromatin knob). Histones and DNAs in heterochromatin have characteristic features with abundant H3H9me2 and cytosine methylation, respectively. Here, by using a genome tiling array, we showed that a subset of heterochromatin loci are silenced by the action of Morpheus' molecule 1 (MOM1) that is an epigeneic regulator for transcriptional gene silencing independent of global DNA and histone modification. Most of the up-regulated loci in the mom1 mutant carried sequences related to transposable elements but none of them was annotated as functional transposons. No specific subclass of transposons was targeted by MOM1 and loci that were unrelated to transposons but flanked by short tandem repeats were also shown to be under the control of MOM1. The results suggest the presence of an unknown level of regulatory network maintaining the silent state of heterochromain in the genome."'
GSE13092-GPL10978_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Heterochromatin is an inert region in the genome and composed of mainly remnants of transposons and repetitive elements. In Arabidopsis, the major heterchromatin regions are present at around centromeres (pericentromeric regions) and at a region on the short arm of chromosome 4 (heterochromatin knob). Histones and DNAs in heterochromatin have characteristic features with abundant H3H9me2 and cytosine methylation, respectively. Here, by using a genome tiling array, we showed that a subset of heterochromatin loci are silenced by the action of Morpheus' molecule 1 (MOM1) that is an epigeneic regulator for transcriptional gene silencing independent of global DNA and histone modification. Most of the up-regulated loci in the mom1 mutant carried sequences related to transposable elements but none of them was annotated as functional transposons. No specific subclass of transposons was targeted by MOM1 and loci that were unrelated to transposons but flanked by short tandem repeats were also shown to be under the control of MOM1. The results suggest the presence of an unknown level of regulatory network maintaining the silent state of heterochromain in the genome."'
GSE13113-GPL4649_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription profiling of post-anthesis unfertilized pistil development and senescence in Arabidopsis, in a serie including samples from seven different stages according to pistil age in days post-anthesis (dpa). The time course started at anthesis and ended at 12-14 dpa, several days later of the loss of fruit set capacity."'
GSE13113-GPL4649_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Unfertilized pistils were obtained growing under low humidity cer6-2 conditional male sterile mutant of Arabidopsis in Ler background. The seven stages considered were: 0-1 dpa, 2-3 dpa, 4-5 dpa, 6-7 dpa, 8-9 dpa 10-11 dpa and 12-14 dpa. Two biological replicas with two technical replicas each were performed for each stage. The biological replicas were grown independently, and all the samples of each one were harvested simultaneously. Amplified RNA from each sample was hibridized together with a global reference over the DNA microarray. The reference was generated from an equimolar mix of amplified RNAs from each of the seven samples of the corresponding biological replica. Amplified RNA from each sample was labelled separately with Cy5 and with Cy3, and each labelling was compared in the DNA microarray with Cy3-labelled and with Cy5-labelled RNA from the reference mix, respectively."'
GSE13113-GPL4650_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Transcription profiling of post-anthesis unfertilized pistil development and senescence in Arabidopsis, in a serie including samples from seven different stages according to pistil age in days post-anthesis (dpa). The time course started at anthesis and ended at 12-14 dpa, several days later of the loss of fruit set capacity."'
GSE13113-GPL4650_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Unfertilized pistils were obtained growing under low humidity cer6-2 conditional male sterile mutant of Arabidopsis in Ler background. The seven stages considered were: 0-1 dpa, 2-3 dpa, 4-5 dpa, 6-7 dpa, 8-9 dpa 10-11 dpa and 12-14 dpa. Two biological replicas with two technical replicas each were performed for each stage. The biological replicas were grown independently, and all the samples of each one were harvested simultaneously. Amplified RNA from each sample was hibridized together with a global reference over the DNA microarray. The reference was generated from an equimolar mix of amplified RNAs from each of the seven samples of the corresponding biological replica. Amplified RNA from each sample was labelled separately with Cy5 and with Cy3, and each labelling was compared in the DNA microarray with Cy3-labelled and with Cy5-labelled RNA from the reference mix, respectively."'
GSE13199-GPL7487_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: wt/mutant strains"'
GSE13199-GPL7488_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Genotype: wt/mutant strains"'
GSE13295_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Identification of genes induced with the cold via inhibition of the phospholipase C - To answer this question we chose a pharmacological approach. We decided to use molecules that are going to inhibit PLC."'
GSE13417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcript profiling in Arabidopsis gollum mutant: Role of the Gollum gene in the plant development"'
GSE13417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"rs07-08_gollum - trancript profiling in arabidopsis gollum mutant. Elucidate the role of Gollum gene in the plant development by a RNAi approach. Seeds of WT and RNAi lines were sowed on soil and conserved 2 days at 4°C. The pots were transferred to the greenhouse under long-day conditions (16h light, 22°C). The leaves of one-month old plants were harvested and total RNA were extracted."'
GSE13417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE13417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"3 dye-swap - wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE13419_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"High-throughput pyrosequencing of endogenous small RNAs from Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type and ddm1 mutant."'
GSE13419_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is essential for silencing transposable elements and some genes in higher eukaryotes, implying that this modification must be tightly controlled. However, accidental changes in DNA methylation can be transmitted through mitosis, as in cancer, or meiosis, leading to epiallelic variation. Here, we demonstrate the existence of an efficient and faithful mechanism that protects against transgenerational loss of DNA methylation in the plant Arabidopsis. This process is specific to the subset of heavily methylated genomic repeats that are targeted by the RNAi machinery, and does not spread into flanking regions. Remethylation is often progressive over two to four sexual generations. This differential and incremental correction of epigenetic defects may preserve genome stability while increasing adaptive opportunities."'
GSE13419_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is essential for silencing transposable elements and some genes in higher eukaryotes, implying that this modification must be tightly controlled. However, accidental changes in DNA methylation can be transmitted through mitosis, as in cancer, or meiosis, leading to epiallelic variation. Here, we demonstrate the existence of an efficient and faithful mechanism that protects against transgenerational loss of DNA methylation in the plant Arabidopsis. This process is specific to the subset of heavily methylated genomic repeats that are targeted by the RNAi machinery, and does not spread into flanking regions. Remethylation is often progressive over two to four sexual generations. This differential and incremental correction of epigenetic defects may preserve genome stability while increasing adaptive opportunities."'
GSE13419_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"2 samples examined: wild type, and ddm1 mutant."'
GSE13438_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Epigenomic mapping of DNA methylation polymorphisms segregating within an epigenetic Recombinant Inbred Line population resultant from crossing the wild-type Col-0 and DNA maintenance methyltransferase mutant, met1-3, parental lines. Each line within the epiRIL population was self-fertilized for 7 generations, 10 individual F7 plants were then bulk harvested to create the F8 generation. Here, data files for three DNA methylation profiled epiRIL lines (epi01, epi12, epi28) are deposited. The DNA methylation polymorphisms were determined using the BiMP method with the Affymetrix Arabidopsis Tiling 1.0R array. The main objective for these samples was to create an epigenomic map to analyze the inheritance of DNA methylation polymorphisms within these three epiRIL entries."'
GSE13596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"A gene expression map of Arabidopsis thaliana shoot apical meristem stem cell niche was generated by isolating the specific cell type using the cell sorting methods.  We used ap1-1;cal1-1 mutant background to enrich the sufficient number of cells for microarray analysis."'
GSE13739_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Salicylic acid (SA) is a critical molecule mediating plant innate immunity with an important role limiting the growth and reproduction of the virulent powdery mildew (PM) Golovinomyces orontii on Arabidopsis thaliana. To investigate this later phase of the PM interaction, and the role played by SA, we performed replicated global expression profiling for wild type and SA biosynthetic mutant ics1 Arabidopsis from 0 to 7 days post infection. We found that ICS1-impacted genes comprise 3.8% of profiled genes with known molecular markers of Arabidopsis defense ranked very highly by the multivariate empirical Bayes statistic (T2 statistic ((Tai and Speed, 2006)). Functional analyses of T2-selected genes identified statistically significant PM-impacted processes including photosynthesis, cell wall modification, and alkaloid metabolism that are ICS1-independent. ICS1-impacted processes include redox, vacuolar transport/secretion, and signaling. Our data also supports a role for ICS1 (SA) in iron and calcium homeostasis and identifies components of SA crosstalk with other phytohormones. Through our analysis, 39 novel PM–impacted transcriptional regulators were identified. Insertion mutants in one of these regulators, PUX2, results in significantly reduced reproduction of the powdery mildew in a cell death independent manner. Though little is known about PUX2, PUX1 acts as a negative regulator of Arabidopsis CDC48 (Rancour et al., 2004; Park et al., 2007), an essential AAA-ATPase chaperone that mediates diverse cellular activities including homotypic fusion of ER and Golgi membranes, ER-associated protein degradation, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis. Future work will elucidate the functional role of the novel regulator PUX2 in PM  resistance."'
GSE13739_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis whole leaves were harvested at 6h, 1 day, 3 days, 5 days and 7 days after Golovinomyces orontii infection for RNA extraction and hybridization to Affymetrix Arabidopsis ATH1 microarrays. Gene expression profiles were obtained for wild type Columbia-0 and enhanced disease susceptibility mutant eds16-1, a null isochorismate synthase 1 (At1g74710) mutant. In parallel, uninfected samples were collected at 0 hr and 7days from wild type and mutant plants.  The experiment includes 4 biological replicates."'
GSE13739_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis whole leaves were harvested at 6h, 1 day, 3 days, 5 days and 7 days after Golovinomyces orontii infection for RNA extraction and hybridization to Affymetrix Arabidopsis ATH1 microarrays. Gene expression profiles were obtained for wild type Columbia-0 and enhanced disease susceptibility mutant eds16-1, a null isochorismate synthase 1 (At1g74710) mutant. In parallel, uninfected samples were collected at 0 hr and 7days from wild type and mutant plants.  The experiment includes 4 biological replicates."'
GSE13783_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transient genetic modification of plant protoplasts is a straightforward and rapid technique for the analysis of numerous aspects of plant biology. One drawback in the analysis of transformed protoplast suspensions is that they are a heterogeneous mix of cells that have and have not been successfully transfected. To overcome this problem, we have developed a system that employs a fluorescent positive selection marker in combination with flow cytometric analysis as well as fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) to isolate responses in the transfected protoplasts exclusively. This recombinase-compatible system enables high-throughput screening of genetic circuitry. Moreover, the use of FACS allows in depth downstream analysis. Lastly, over-expression is an effective means to dissect regulatory networks, especially where redundancy exists. Here, this system has been applied to the study of auxin signaling in order to investigate reporter gene activation and genome-wide transcriptional changes in response to manipulation of the auxin-response network. We have transiently over-expressed dominant negative mutant isoforms of Aux/IAA transcription factors (IAA7mII and IAA19mII; Tiwari et al., 2001) in Arabidopsis Pwer::GFP root protoplasts, making use of a RFP fluorescent positive selection marker and FACS to isolate the dually labeled (IAAnmII expressing and Pwer::GFP-positive) cells. We have compared the transcriptional differences between an empty vector control, IAA7mII and IAA19mII protoplasts that had either been treated with 5microM IAA or mock-treated for 3 hours."'
GSE13822_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Moderate increases in the ambient temperature promote hypocotyl growth in Arabidopsis, and this response is totally dependent on the proper activity of the auxin, gibberellin, and brassinosteroid pathways. We have analyzed global the changes in gene expression that occur in Arabidopsis seedlings after a moderate increase in the growth temperature (20ºC to 29ºC for 2 hours). In order to understand how the different hormone pathways affect this growth response, the same transcription profiling analysis was conducted in seedlings deficient in each hormone."'
GSE13833_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis thaliana plants (accession Col-0) were grown on soil in a semi-sterile growth chamber under fluorescent lights (14 hours light, 10 hours dark, 21 centi grades, 100 Einstein/m2/s). Wild type Col-0 plants and the npr1-3 mutant were used in this study. Aerial tissues of 2 week old soil grown Arabidopsis seedlings were sprayed with 100uM 3,5-Dichloroanthranilic acid (DCA), or 100uM 2,6-Dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) or mock solution and harvested 48h or 6 days after the treatment. Final DMSO concentrations never exceeded 0.002%.  Mock treatments were application of 0.002% DMSO in water. For harvesting the aerial plant parts were shock-frozen in liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was isolated from seedlings using TRIZOL (Invitrogen) follwing the manufacturer’s instructions. RNA was processed and hybridized to Affymetrix Arabidopsis ATH1 genome array GeneChip following manufacturer’s instructions (Affymetrix) by the University of California, Riverside Core Instrument Facility.  Three independent biological replicates were performed for each treatment."'
GSE13881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional profiles between mp mutant seedlings and transgenics carrying the dexamethasone-inducible GR-bdl protein"'
GSE13881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify targets of the transcription factor AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR5 / MONOPTEROS (ARF5/MP), we compared transcriptomes of mp-B4149 mutant seedlings (9 day-old) and seedlings carrying the dexamethasone-inducible version of the MP inhibitor protein BODENLOS (GR-bdl). Without dexamethasone (DEX) treatment, this line is identical to the wild-type, while DEX treatment leads to strong inhibition of ARF-dependent transcription. To remove all endogenous MP-inhibiting Aux/IAA proteins, we treated mp or GR-bdl seedlings during 1 hour with auxin (50 micromolar Indole-3-Acetic Acid), either with or without a pretreatment with 10 micromolar DEX for 1 hour. Genes that are activated by MP are expected to br downregulated in mp seedlings and in the GR-bdl line afer DEX treatment. We used biological duplicates for each of the three treatments."'
GSE13881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"In order to identify targets of the transcription factor AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR5 / MONOPTEROS (ARF5/MP), we compared transcriptomes of mp-B4149 mutant seedlings (9 day-old) and seedlings carrying the dexamethasone-inducible version of the MP inhibitor protein BODENLOS (GR-bdl). Without dexamethasone (DEX) treatment, this line is identical to the wild-type, while DEX treatment leads to strong inhibition of ARF-dependent transcription. To remove all endogenous MP-inhibiting Aux/IAA proteins, we treated mp or GR-bdl seedlings during 1 hour with auxin (50 micromolar Indole-3-Acetic Acid), either with or without a pretreatment with 10 micromolar DEX for 1 hour. Genes that are activated by MP are expected to br downregulated in mp seedlings and in the GR-bdl line afer DEX treatment. We used biological duplicates for each of the three treatments."'
GSE13881_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mp mutant and GR-bdl seeds were germinated on solid 1/2MS media, and transferred to liquid medium after 9 days of horizontal growth. Duplicate cultures were generated for mp mutants, and quadruplicates for the GR-bdl line. 10 micromolar DEX was added to both mp cultures and to two of the GR-bdl cultures, and seedlings were gently shaken during 1 hour. Then, 50 micromolar IAA was added to all 6 cultures and seedlings were incubated with gentle shaking for another hour. Total RNA was isolated from the seedlings using a QIAgen RNeasy kit, and reverse transcription, in-vitro transcription, cRNA labling and fragemntation was done according to established methods (Schmid et al., Nature Genetics [2005] 37, 501-506). Labeled cRNA was hybridized to Arabidopsis ATH1 arrays."'
GSE13913_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Expression of >22,600 genes was analyzed in aerial tissues from 14 day old soil grown wild type and php mutant plants using Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip, and two independent biological replicates. Data from CEL files were adjusted for background and normalized using the Bioconductor GCRMA package (http://www.bioconductor.org)."'
GSE13913_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Aerial tissues from 14-day-old soil grown wild-type and php mutant plants were  collected. Total RNAs were isolated and used for cDNA synthesis/biotin labeling following Affymetrix protocol. Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChip and two biologically independent replicates were used. Data from CEL files were adjusted for background and normalized using Bioconductor GCRMA package (transformed to Log2). "'
GSE14091_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"3weeks old Arabidopsis ANAC059 and ANAC092 estradiole-induced overexpresion plants were treated with estradiole for 5h. As control, empty vector transgenic plants were also treated as same condition. Shoots of treated plants were harvested in order to RNA extraction and hybridization to affymetrix GeneChip array. For T-DNA insertion mutants, leaf number 11 were harvested 38 days old wt and mutant plants."'
GSE14237_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Salicylic acid (SA)-induced defense responses are important factors during effector triggered immunity and microbe-associated molecular pattern (MAMP)-induced immunity in plants. This article presents evidence that a member of the Arabidopsis CBP60 gene family, CBP60g, contributes to MAMP-triggered SA accumulation. CBP60g is inducible by both pathogen and MAMP treatments. Pseudomonas syringae growth is enhanced in cbp60g mutants. Expression profiles of a cbp60g mutant after MAMP treatment are similar to those of sid2 and pad4, suggesting a defect in SA signaling. Accordingly, cbp60g mutants accumulate less SA when treated with the MAMP flg22 or a P. syringae hrcC strain that activates MAMP signaling. MAMP-induced production of reactive oxygen species and callose deposition are unaffected in cbp60g mutants. CBP60g is a calmodulin-binding protein with a calmodulin-binding domain located near the N-terminus. Calmodulin binding is dependent on Ca2+. Mutations in CBP60g that abolish calmodulin binding prevent complementation of the SA production and bacterial growth defects of cbp60g mutants, indicating that calmodulin binding is essential for the function of CBP60g in defense signaling. These studies show that CBP60g constitutes a calmodulin-dependent link between MAMP recognition and SA accumulation that is important for resistance to P. syringae. "'
GSE14240_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Arabidopsis oligonucleotide microarrays fabricated by the University of Arizona contain 26,000 oligonucleotides (http://www.ag.arizona.edu/microarray/). RNA was isolated from 6-week-old flowers from u-ATP9 and wt plants. The experimental (mutant) and reference (wild type) RNA samples were reverse-transcribed and directly labeled with either Cy5-dUTP or Cy3-dUTP fluorescent dye (GE Healthcare), using random hexamer primers (Invitrogen). Excess nucleotides and primers were removed using QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (Qiagen). Labeled samples were mixed and then hybridized to microarray for 15 h at 60°C. The slides were washed at room temperature in three wash steps: 2 x SSC, 0.5% SDS; 0.5 x SSC; and 0.05 x SSC for 5 min each with gentle shaking. The slides were scanned with a GenePix 4000B Scanner (Axon Instruments Inc., Union City, CA). Normalization between the Cy3 and Cy5 fluorescent dye emission channels was achieved by adjusting the levels of both image intensities. The experiments were repeated four times with samples from different experiments, as biological replicates. In dye swapping experiments, the RNA samples from different experiments were reciprocally labeled, both as a biological and technical repetition for comparing the reproducibility of the experiments. Hybridization intensities for each microarray element were measured using ScanAlyze 4.24 (available at http://genome-www4.stanford.edu/MicroArray/SMD/restech.html). The two channels were normalized in log space using the z-score normalization on a 95% trimmed data set. We removed unreliable spots according to the following criteria: spots flagged as having false intensity caused by dust or background on the array were removed; and spots for which intensity was less than three fold above background were also eliminated. Data from multiple experiments were normalized (Bolstad, 2003) and signals from spots from different experiments were statistically analyzed using Significance Analysis of Microarrays using the one class response (SAM, http://www-stat.stanford.edu/~tibs/SAM/), cut at a false discovery rate < 10% (Tusher, 2001)."'
GSE14247_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Six samples were analyzed.  There were three treatments with two biological replicates each.  The treatments are as follows:  3 week old Col-0 plants (air control), 3 week old Col-0 plants treated for 4 hours with ethylene gas (10 ppm), and artificial microRNA knockdown mutants, amiR-ETP1/2."'
GSE14332_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"wt plants (ws) and opr3 mutant plants were wounded "'
GSE14420_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"Global gene expression was compared between Arabidopsis lines with altered expression of ANAC102 (over-expressed and knocked-out) and wild-type. ANAC102 is a putative NAC domain transcription factor. Gene expression was compared between an ANAC102 over-expressing line and parental ecotype C24 under ambient atmosphere to determine which genes ANAC102 is capable of regulating. Gene expression was also compared between three week old plants of an ANAC102 knock-out line and parental ecotype Col-0 under 0.1% Oxygen and ambient atmosphere conditions to determine which genes may require ANAC102 for appropriate expression under these conditions. Gene expression was also compared between imbibed seeds of an ANAC102 knock-out line and parental ecotype Col-0 following a 0.1% Oxygen treatment."'
GSE14443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection."'
GSE14443_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection."'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Changes in gene expression in MKK2 and MKKKC5 mutants: wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection. -"'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection. -"'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison between the over-expressed mutant of the MKK2 gene and the KO mutant for the MKKKC5 gene versus the wild type."'
GSE14444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison between the over-expressed mutant of the MKK2 gene and the KO mutant for the MKKKC5 gene versus the wild type."'
GSE14446_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of lpp2 KO mutant in response to ABA."'
GSE14446_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression of lpp2 KO mutant in response to ABA."'
GSE14446_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptomic study of lpp2 KO mutant in response to abcsisic acid - Fully developed rosette leaves were immersed for 1 min in a solution of 10-5 M ABA with 0.1% DMSO and 0.05%silwet. RNA are extracted after a 3h incubation. This treatment is compared to control (1 min immersion in 0.1% DMSO and 0.05%silwet) then 3h incubation."'
GSE14446_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptomic study of lpp2 KO mutant in response to abcsisic acid - Fully developed rosette leaves were immersed for 1 min in a solution of 10-5 M ABA with 0.1% DMSO and 0.05%silwet. RNA are extracted after a 3h incubation. This treatment is compared to control (1 min immersion in 0.1% DMSO and 0.05%silwet) then 3h incubation."'
GSE14492_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Arabidopsis gene expression profile : Col-0 wild-type vs. pif3pif4pil5pil6 (pifQ) mutant"'
GSE14492_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Transcriptional profiling of 60h-old Arabidopsis whole seedlings comparing control Col-0 wild-type plants with pifQ mutant plants"'
GSE14492_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The expression profile of dark-grown pifQ mutant shows similar pattern of Rc-grown Col-0 wild-type"'
GSE14496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"ACC Synthase (ACS) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthesis in plants. It catalyzes the conversion of s-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), the precursor of ethylene. Arabidopsis has nine ACS genes. The goal of the project is to inactivate each gene by insertional mutagenesis and amiRNA technology and eventually construct a null ACS mutant. We have been recently able to achieve this goal. Furthermore, we wanted to know how inactivation of individual ACS genes affects global gene expression."'
GSE14496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"ACC Synthase (ACS) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthesis in plants. It catalyzes the conversion of s-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), the precursor of ethylene. Arabidopsis has nine ACS genes. The goal of the project is to inactivate each gene by insertional mutagenesis and amiRNA technology and eventually construct a null ACS mutant. We have been recently able to achieve this goal. Furthermore, we wanted to know how inactivation of individual ACS genes affects global gene expression."'
GSE14496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"ACC Synthase (ACS) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthesis in plants. It catalyzes the conversion of s-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), the precursor of ethylene. Arabidopsis has nine ACS genes. The goal of the project is to inactivate each gene by insertional mutagenesis and amiRNA technology and eventually construct a null ACS mutant. We have been recently able to achieve this goal. Furthermore, we wanted to know how inactivation of individual ACS genes affects global gene expression."'
GSE14496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: ACS mutant comprrison; global gene expression."'
GSE14496_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Triplicate samples of 10-day light grown seedling from each ACS mutant was used for microarray analysis."'
GSE14501_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection."'
GSE14501_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The mkkkC5 mutant, a knockout line of MAPKKKC5, shows changes in growth and development, as well as an altered Alternaria sensitivity. It was shown by Brader and Djamei et al.(2007) that Alternaria brassicicola sensitivity is also influenced by MKK2-activity. Aim of this experiment is to access the transcriptional changes in the mkkkc5plants as well as in plants overexpressing a constitutively active MKK2-version (MKK2EE). The second part of the experiment addresses transcriptional changes in these plants after Alternaria brassicicola infection."'
GSE14570-GPL3371_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is an epigenetic mark associated with transposable element silencing and gene imprinting in flowering plants and mammals. In plants, imprinting occurs in the endosperm, which nourishes the embryo during seed development. We have profiled Arabidopsis DNA methylation genome-wide in the embryo and endosperm. Large-scale methylation changes accompany endosperm development and endosperm-specific gene expression. Transposable element fragments are extensively demethylated in the endosperm. We discovered new imprinted genes by identifying candidate genes associated with the top differentially methylated regions. Our data suggest that imprinting in plants evolved from genome defense against transposable elements."'
GSE14570-GPL9062_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is an epigenetic mark associated with transposable element silencing and gene imprinting in flowering plants and mammals. In plants, imprinting occurs in the endosperm, which nourishes the embryo during seed development. We have profiled Arabidopsis DNA methylation genome-wide in the embryo and endosperm. Large-scale methylation changes accompany endosperm development and endosperm-specific gene expression. Transposable element fragments are extensively demethylated in the endosperm. We discovered new imprinted genes by identifying candidate genes associated with the top differentially methylated regions. Our data suggest that imprinting in plants evolved from genome defense against transposable elements."'
GSE14600_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The molecular mechanisms by which floral homeotic genes act as major developmental switches to specify the identity of floral organs, are still largely unknown. Floral homeotic genes encode transcription factors of the MADS-box family, which are supposed to assemble in a combinatorial fashion into organ-specific multimeric protein complexes. Major mediators of protein interactions are MADS-domain proteins of the SEPALLATA subfamily, which play a crucial role in the development of all types of floral organs. In order to characterize the roles of the SEPALLATA3 transcription factor complexes at the molecular level, we analyzed genome-wide the direct targets of SEPALLATA3. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by ultrahigh-throughput sequencing or hybridization to whole-genome tiling arrays to obtain genome-wide DNA-binding patterns of SEPALLATA3. The results demonstrate that SEPALLATA3 binds to thousands of sites in the genome. Most potential target sites that were strongly bound in wild-type inflorescences, are also bound in the floral homeotic agamous mutant, which displays only the perianth organs, sepals and petals. Characterization of the target genes shows that SEPALLATA3 integrates and modulates different growth-related and hormonal pathways in a combinatorial fashion with other MADS-box proteins and possibly with non-MADS transcription factors. In particular, the results suggest multiple links between SEPALLATA3 and auxin signaling pathways. Our gene expression analyses link the genomic binding site data with the phenotype of plants expressing a dominant repressor version of SEPALLATA3, suggesting that it modulates auxin response to facilitate floral organ outgrowth and morphogenesis. Furthermore, the binding of the SEPALLATA3 protein to cis-regulatory elements of other MADS-box genes and expression analyses reveal that this protein is a key component in the regulatory transcriptional network underlying the formation of floral organs."'
GSE14600_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"ChIP experiments were performed on Arabidopsis wildtype and agamous mutant inflorescences using an antibody raised against a C-terminal peptide of SEP3. As control, ChIP experiments were performed on the sep3 mutant."'
GSE14614_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Trancript profiling in arabidopsis gdh mutant.  Identification of the function and regulation of the GDH enzyme in plants. Comparison of transcriptome in leaves, stems and roots in wild type versus triple GDH (1, 2, 3)-defficient mutant and in wild type versus GDH3- defficient mutant."'
GSE14614_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: wt vs mutant comparison"'
GSE14635_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The molecular mechanisms by which floral homeotic genes act as major developmental switches to specify the identity of floral organs, are still largely unknown. Floral homeotic genes encode transcription factors of the MADS-box family, which are supposed to assemble in a combinatorial fashion into organ-specific multimeric protein complexes. Major mediators of protein interactions are MADS-domain proteins of the SEPALLATA subfamily, which play a crucial role in the development of all types of floral organs. In order to characterize the roles of the SEPALLATA3 transcription factor complexes at the molecular level, we analyzed genome-wide the direct targets of SEPALLATA3. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by ultrahigh-throughput sequencing or hybridization to whole-genome tiling arrays to obtain genome-wide DNA-binding patterns of SEPALLATA3. The results demonstrate that SEPALLATA3 binds to thousands of sites in the genome. Most potential target sites that were strongly bound in wild-type inflorescences, are also bound in the floral homeotic agamous mutant, which displays only the perianth organs, sepals and petals. Characterization of the target genes shows that SEPALLATA3 integrates and modulates different growth-related and hormonal pathways in a combinatorial fashion with other MADS-box proteins and possibly with non-MADS transcription factors. In particular, the results suggest multiple links between SEPALLATA3 and auxin signaling pathways. Our gene expression analyses link the genomic binding site data with the phenotype of plants expressing a dominant repressor version of SEPALLATA3, suggesting that it modulates auxin response to facilitate floral organ outgrowth and morphogenesis. Furthermore, the binding of the SEPALLATA3 protein to cis-regulatory elements of other MADS-box genes and expression analyses reveal that this protein is a key component in the regulatory transcriptional network underlying the formation of floral organs."'
GSE14702_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_overall_design	"Four biological replicates were taken to compare the transcriptome between hsfb1 hsfb2b double knockout plant and wild-type plant. Plants were grown on normal condition in MS agar medium and RNA was extracted from 7d-old whole seedlings."'
GSE14765_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from Arabidopsis gapcp mutant"'
GSE14765_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Glycolytic Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) catalyzes the conversion of glyceraldehyde 3-phospate to 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate by coupling with the reduction of NAD+ to NADH. Both cytosolic and plastidial isoforms of GAPDH has been described but the in vivo functions of the plastidial isoforms is unresolved. We generated mutants of the Arabidopsis plastidial GAPDH isoforms (At1g79530, At1g16300; GAPCp1, GAPCp2) and performed a microarray analysis comparing gapcp double (gapcp1 gapcp2) mutant and wild type seedlings"'
GSE14788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Light and brassinosteroids (BRs) have been proved to be crucial in regulating plant growth and development, however, the mechanism of how they synergistically function is still largely unknown. To explore the underlying mechanisms in photomorphogenesis, genome-wide analyses were carried out through examining the gene expressions of the dark-grown WT or BR biosynthesis-defective mutant det2 seedlings in presence of light stimuli, or exogenous Brassinolide (BL). Results showed that BR deficiency stimulates, while BL treatment suppresses, the expressions of light responsive genes and photomorphogenesis, revealing the negative effects of BR in photomorphogenesis. This is consistent with that genes involved in cell wall modification and cellular metabolism were specifically modulated by BL during dark-light transition, and altered expressions of genes related to energy utilization. Further analysis revealed that hormone biosynthesis and signaling related genes, especially those of auxin, were altered under BL treatment or light stimuli, indicating that BR may modulate photomorphogenesis through synergetic regulation with other hormones. Additionally, suppressed ubiquitin-cycle pathway during light-dark transition hinted the presence of a complicated network among light, hormone and protein degradation. The study provides the direct evidence of BR effects in photomorphogenesis and identified the genes involved in BR and light signaling pathway, which will help to elucidate the molecular mechanism of plant photomorphogenesis."'
GSE14788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"In order to study how BR involves in photomorphogenesis, dark-grown wild-type or BR- deficient mutant det2 seedlings were treated with BL or light, gene expression pattern analysis confirmed that BR deficiency specifically induces, while BL treatment suppresses, the expression of photosynthesis and light responsive genes. Interplay of BR and other hormones play important roles in dark-light transition and photomorphogenesis."'
GSE14788_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"In order to study how BR involves in photomorphogenesis, dark-grown wild-type or BR- deficient mutant det2 seedlings were treated with BL or light, gene expression pattern analysis confirmed that BR deficiency specifically induces, while BL treatment suppresses, the expression of photosynthesis and light responsive genes. Interplay of BR and other hormones play important roles in dark-light transition and photomorphogenesis."'
