GSE10083_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Major toxicities of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) result from dysregulation of gene expression mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).  Dioxin-like chemicals alter expression of numerous genes in liver but the specific genes whose dysregulation leads to toxicities such as wasting, hepatotoxicity and lethality have not been identified.  We searched for genes that are most likely to be key to dioxin toxicity by using gene expression arrays to contrast hepatic gene expression after TCDD treatment in dioxin-sensitive rats (that carry wildtype AHR) with gene expression in H/W(Kuopio) rats which are highly resistant to dioxin toxicity due to a major deletion in the AHR's transactivation domain (TAD).  The total number of TCDD-responsive genes was smaller in rats with the AHRH/W genotype than in rats with wildtype AHR.  However, genes in the classic AH gene battery such as CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and CYP1B1 remained fully responsive to TCDD in AHRH/W rats; thus the TAD deletion selectively interferes with expression of a subset of hepatic genes rather than abolishing global AHR-mediated responses. Genes in the following functional categories differ in response to TCDD between dioxin-sensitive rats and dioxin-resistant rats: fatty acid  oxidation, metabolism (xenobiotic, alcohol, amino  acid,  and fatty  acid), phosphate transport, regulation of  steroid  biosynthesis, nitrogen compound  catabolism, and generation of  precursor  metabolites  and  energy.  Many of these differentially-responsive genes are integral parts of pathways such as: protein degradation and synthesis, fatty acid metabolism and synthesis, cytokinesis, cell growth, and apoptosis which may be part of mechanisms which lead to TCDD-induced wasting, hepatotoxicity, tumors, and death. These differentially-responsive genes are worthy candidates for further mechanistic studies to test their role in mediating or protecting from major dioxin toxicities."'
GSE10557_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The oocytes found within the primordial follicles of mammalian ovaries remain quiescent for months to years until they receive the appropriate signals to undergo the primordial to primary follicle transition and initiate folliculogenesis. The molecular mechanisms and extracellular signaling factors that regulate this process remain to be fully elucidated. The current study investigates the mechanisms utilized by anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH; i.e. Müllerian inhibitory substance) to inhibit the primordial to primary follicle transition. Ovaries from 4-day-old rats were placed into organ culture and incubated in the absence or presence of AMH, either alone or in combination with known stimulators of follicle transition, including basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), kit ligand (KITL), or keratinocyte growth factor (KGF). Following 10 days of culture, the ovaries were sectioned, stained, and morphologically evaluated to determine the percentage of primordial versus developing follicles. As previously demonstrated, AMH treatment decreased primordial to primary follicle transition. Interestingly, AMH inhibited the stimulatory actions of KITL, bFGF, and KGF. Therefore, AMH can inhibit the basal and stimulated development of primordial follicles. To investigate the mechanism of AMH actions, the influence AMH has on the ovarian transcriptome was analyzed. AMH treatment when compared with controls was found to alter the expression of 707 genes. The overall effect of AMH exposure is to decrease the expression of stimulatory factors, increase the expression of inhibitory factors, and regulate cellular pathways (e.g. transforming growth factor beta signaling pathway) that result in the inhibition of primordial follicle development. Analysis of the regulatory factors and cellular pathways altered by AMH provides a better understanding of the molecular control of primordial follicle development."'
GSE10581_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Huntington’s disease (HD) is a devastating disease for which currently no therapy is available. It is a progressive autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the HD gene, resulting in an expansion of polyglutamines at the N-terminal end of the encoded protein, designated huntingtin, and the accumulation of cytoplasmic and nuclear aggregates. Not only is there a loss of normal huntingtin function, upon expansion of the CAG repeat there is also a gain of toxic function of the huntingtin protein and this affects a wide range of cellular processes. To identify groups of genes that could play a role in the pathology of Huntington’s disease, we studied mRNA changes in an inducible PC12 model of Huntington’s disease before and after aggregates became visible. This is the first study to show the involvement Nrf2-responsive genes in the oxidative stress response in HD. Oxidative stress related transcripts were altered in expression suggesting a protective response in cells expressing mutant huntingtin at an early stage of cellular pathology. Furthermore, there was a down-regulation of catecholamine biosynthesis resulting in lower dopamine levels in culture. Our results further demonstrate an early impairment of transcription, the cytoskeleton, ion channels and receptors. Given the pathogenic impact of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, the Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway is an attractive therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE10581_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Huntington’s disease (HD) is a devastating disease for which currently no therapy is available. It is a progressive autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the HD gene, resulting in an expansion of polyglutamines at the N-terminal end of the encoded protein, designated huntingtin, and the accumulation of cytoplasmic and nuclear aggregates. Not only is there a loss of normal huntingtin function, upon expansion of the CAG repeat there is also a gain of toxic function of the huntingtin protein and this affects a wide range of cellular processes. To identify groups of genes that could play a role in the pathology of Huntington’s disease, we studied mRNA changes in an inducible PC12 model of Huntington’s disease before and after aggregates became visible. This is the first study to show the involvement Nrf2-responsive genes in the oxidative stress response in HD. Oxidative stress related transcripts were altered in expression suggesting a protective response in cells expressing mutant huntingtin at an early stage of cellular pathology. Furthermore, there was a down-regulation of catecholamine biosynthesis resulting in lower dopamine levels in culture. Our results further demonstrate an early impairment of transcription, the cytoskeleton, ion channels and receptors. Given the pathogenic impact of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, the Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway is an attractive therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases."'
GSE10823-GPL85_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"TCE is a non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogen in mouse, but not in rat or human. Extrapolation of data from laboratory animals to humans is difficult due to species-specific differences. To identify molecular pathways and biological changes responsible for species-specific differences in hepatocarcinogenesis, we analyzed gene expression profiles of livers from B6C3F1 mice and SD rats administered TCE by oral gavage once or repeatedly every 24 hrs for 14 days. Gene expression analysis revealed distinct clusters of transcriptional profiles in single- and repeated-dose mice and rats.  Pathway analysis showed differences in biological pathways between single- and repeated-dose mice and rats. Activation of the MAPK signaling cascade and ubiquitin-proteasome inhibitory function, as well as inhibition of TGF-beta signaling, were specific to mice and suggest a role in hepatocyte proliferation. Although pathological analysis showed no evidence of apoptosis, gene expression analysis revealed changes in apoptosis-related genes. In addition to the previously reported suppression of apoptosis, results in repeated-dose mice showed that toxicity induced by TCE in turn induces apoptosis."'
GSE10854-GPL1355_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Previously, we have demonstrated that the recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying the kringle domain 1 of hepatocyte growth factor (rAAV-HGFK1) gene is a potential anti-angiogenic approach for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and exerts direct inhibition effects on tumor cells. Here, using genome-wide expression profiling technology, coupled with RT-PCR validation, we investigated the differentially expressed genes and proposed the mechanisms involved in HGFK1 anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor cell signaling networks. "'
GSE10949_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"A congenic rat model was established carrying a single nucleotide deletion in the ABCC2 gene. Renal cross transplantations were performed with wild type rats. Renal excretion of the MRP2 substrates bilirubin glucuronide and p-aminohippuric acid, but not morphine-6-glucuronide, was affected by the donor genotype. Moreover, proteomic analyses and transcriptional profiling revealed modified expression patterns indicative of increased oxidative stress in renal grafts carrying the mutated gene."'
GSE10949_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Performed analyses of (6) wild-type  and (6) MRP2 deficient  kidneys that had been transplanted in wild-type recipients."'
GSE11473_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A theoretical framework for the function of the medial temporal lobe system in memory defines differential contributions of the hippocampal subregions with regard to pattern recognition retrieval processes and encoding of new information. To investigate molecular programs of relevance, we designed a spatial learning protocol to engage a pattern separation function to encode new information. After background training, two groups of animals experienced the same new training in a novel environment, however only one group was provided spatial information and demonstrated spatial memory in a retention test. Global transcriptional analysis of the microdissected subregions of the hippocampus exposed a CA3 pattern that was sufficient to clearly segregate spatial learning animals from control. Individual gene and functional group analysis anchored these results to previous work in neural plasticity. From a multitude of expression changes, increases in camk2a, rasgrp1 and nlgn1 were confirmed by in situ hybridization. Furthermore, siRNA inhibition of nlgn1 within the CA3 subregion impaired spatial memory performance, pointing to mechanisms of synaptic remodeling as a basis for rapid encoding of new information in long-term memory."'
GSE11474_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A theoretical framework for the function of the medial temporal lobe system in memory defines differential contributions of the hippocampal subregions with regard to pattern recognition retrieval processes and encoding of new information. To investigate molecular programs of relevance, we designed a spatial learning protocol to engage a pattern separation function to encode new information. After background training, two groups of animals experienced the same new training in a novel environment, however only one group was provided spatial information and demonstrated spatial memory in a retention test. Global transcriptional analysis of the microdissected subregions of the hippocampus exposed a CA3 pattern that was sufficient to clearly segregate spatial learning animals from control. Individual gene and functional group analysis anchored these results to previous work in neural plasticity. From a multitude of expression changes, increases in camk2a, rasgrp1 and nlgn1 were confirmed by in situ hybridization. Furthermore, siRNA inhibition of nlgn1 within the CA3 subregion impaired spatial memory performance, pointing to mechanisms of synaptic remodeling as a basis for rapid encoding of new information in long-term memory."'
GSE11475_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A theoretical framework for the function of the medial temporal lobe system in memory defines differential contributions of the hippocampal subregions with regard to pattern recognition retrieval processes and encoding of new information. To investigate molecular programs of relevance, we designed a spatial learning protocol to engage a pattern separation function to encode new information. After background training, two groups of animals experienced the same new training in a novel environment, however only one group was provided spatial information and demonstrated spatial memory in a retention test. Global transcriptional analysis of the microdissected subregions of the hippocampus exposed a CA3 pattern that was sufficient to clearly segregate spatial learning animals from control. Individual gene and functional group analysis anchored these results to previous work in neural plasticity. From a multitude of expression changes, increases in camk2a, rasgrp1 and nlgn1 were confirmed by in situ hybridization. Furthermore, siRNA inhibition of nlgn1 within the CA3 subregion impaired spatial memory performance, pointing to mechanisms of synaptic remodeling as a basis for rapid encoding of new information in long-term memory."'
GSE11500_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is characterized by the formation of multiple fluid-filled cysts that destroy the kidney architecture resulting in end-stage renal failure. Mutations in the ADPKD genes PKD1 and PKD2 account for nearly all the cases of ADPKD. Increased cell proliferation is one of the key features of the disease. Several studies indicated that polycystin-1, the product of PKD1, regulates cellular proliferation through various signaling pathways, but little is known about the role played by polycystin-2, the product of PKD2. Recently, it was reported that as with polycystin-1, polycystin-2 can acts as a negative regulator of cell growth by modulating the levels of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21 and the activity of the cyclin-dependent kinase 2, Cdk2. In this study we utilized different kidney cell lines expressing wild-type and mutant PKD2 as well as primary tubular epithelial cells isolated from a PKD transgenic rat to further explore the contribution of the p21/Cdk2 pathway in ADPKD proliferation. Surprisingly, over-expression of wild-type PKD2 in renal cell lines failed to inactivate Cdk2 activity and consequently had no effect on cell proliferation. On the other hand, expression of mutated PKD2 augmented proliferation only in the primary tubular epithelial cells of a rat model but this was independent of STAT-1/p21 pathway. Genome-wide expression analysis in these cells revealed that expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p57 is downregulated, while p21 remains unchanged. This p57 reduction is accompanied by an increase in Cdk2 levels.   Our results indicate the probable involvement of p57 on epithelial cell proliferation in polycystic kidney disease. In addition, it confirms that PKD2-induced proliferation is a multifactorial process."'
GSE12007_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"RT4D6 Schwannoma cells were treated with siRNA specific for Sox10 and a mutant siRNA. Total RNA from the cells were used to screen for differentially expressed genes. "'
GSE12007_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Specific siRNA and mutant siRNA were used.  Two different sets of paired cells were used.  Biotin labeled probes were generated and separate microarray chips were used to detect expression of genes."'
GSE12087_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The goal of this study was to identify changes in muscle gene expression that may contribute to loss of adaptability of old muscle. Muscle atrophy was induced in young adult (6-month) and old (32-month) male Brown Norway/F344 rats by two weeks of hind limb suspension (HS) and soleus muscles were analyzed by cDNA microarrays. We conclude that a cold shock response may be part of a compensatory mechanism in muscles undergoing atrophy to preserve remaining muscle mass and that RBM3 may be a therapeutic target to prevent muscle loss."'
GSE12289_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"Key points are examined in a time series over the four day estrus cycle of rat mammary gland in virgin (null parous).  Singlet rats at each time point were used for mathematical analysis in this study for a total of 31 individual arrays."'
GSE12596_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Background: Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the slow, progressive degeneration of RGC. Elevated IOP is the biggest risk factor for developing glaucoma, loss of RGC and optic nerve atrophy. The pathophysiology of glaucomatous neurodegeneration is not fully understood. It is now clear that RGC die by apoptosis in glaucoma. However, what triggers the apoptosis is still unknown. So far, several gene expression studies have been performed on the retina as a whole. These studies revealed up and downregulation of many genes in response to elevated IOP and optic nerve transection."'
GSE12724_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Positional identification of Adamts16 variants linked to inherited hypertension: knockdown of Adamts16 in NRK-52E cells"'
GSE12724_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We used Affymetrix GeneChips to expression profile rat kidney NRK-52E cells treated with control scrambled siRNA or siRNA specifically targeting Adamts16. The goal of this project was to identify the downstream genes regulated by Adamts16 (the function of Adamts16 has yet to be fully delineated). Gene expression differences resulting from these siRNA-mediated gene knockdown experiments will be compared to the gene expression profiling experiments comparing kidneys from Dahl salt-senstive hypertensive inbred strain versus less hypertensive S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) congenic strain. The S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) congenic animal is an S rat containing the LEWIS allele for Adamts16 instead of the S allele. Gene expression differences in the kidneys of S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) versus S are hypothesized to result from sequence differences between the S and LEWIS alleles for Adamts16. It is further hypothesized that allelic differences in Adamts16 in inbred rats is responsible for blood pressure variance. The downstream genes regulated by Adamts16 may provide insight pertaining to the mechanism of blood pressure differences."'
GSE12724_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene knockdown with siRNA"'
GSE12725_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We used Affymetrix GeneChips to expression profile kidneys from Dahl salt-senstive hypertensive inbred strain and less hypertensive S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) congenic strain to identify genes downstream of Adamts16 (the function of Adamts16 has yet to be fully delineated). The S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) congenic animal is an S rat containing the LEWIS allele for Adamts16 instead of the S allele. It is hypothesized that allelic differences in Adamts16 in inbred rats is responsible for blood pressure variance. We further hypothesize that gene expression differences in the kidneys of S.LEW(D1MCO4x1x3Bx1) versus S result from sequence differences between the S and LEWIS alleles of Adamts16. Lastly, the downstream genes differentially regulated by the Adamts16 alleles may provide insight pertaining to the mechanism of blood pressure differences. Gene expression differences resulting from these kidney comparisons will be compared to the gene expression profiling experiments comparing siRNA-mediated knockdown of Adamts16 in NRK-52E kidney cells versus scrambled siRNA control."'
GSE12744_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"CMV-driven inhibition of FAK in soleus muscle was compared vs contralateral muscle"'
GSE13428_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Soman (O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate) is a potent neurotoxicant.  Acute exposure to soman causes profound inhibition of the critical enzyme acetylcholinesterase, resulting in excessive levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.  Excessive acetylcholine levels cause convulsions, seizures, and respiratory distress.  The initial cholinergic crisis can be overcome by rapid anti-cholinergic therapeutic intervention, resulting in increased survival.  However, conventional treatments do not protect the brain from seizure-related damage, and thus neurodegeneration of soman-sensitive areas of the brain is a potential post-exposure outcome.  We performed gene expression profiling of rat hippocampus following soman exposure to gain greater insight into the molecular pathogenesis of soman-induced neurodegeneration."'
GSE13442_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The purpose of this study was to investigate whether expression of specific genes in peripheral blood can be used as surrogate marker(s) to detect and distinguish target organ-specific chemical toxicity in rats.  Rats were intraperitoneally administered a single, acute dose of a well-established hepatotoxic (acetaminophen) or neurotoxic (methyl parathion) chemical. Administration of acetaminophen (AP) or methyl parathion (MP) in the rats resulted in hepatotoxicity as evidenced from elevated blood transaminase activities or neurotoxicity as evidenced from the inhibition of acetyl cholinesterase activity in the blood, respectively. Microarray analysis of the global gene expression profile of rat blood identified distinct gene expression markers capable of detecting and distinguishing hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity induced by AP and MP, respectively. Differential expressions of the marker genes specific for hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity were detectable in the blood much earlier than the appearance of the commonly used clinical markers, serum transaminases and acetyl cholinesterase. In summary, our results demonstrated that blood gene expression markers can detect and distinguish target organ toxicity non-invasively and with higher sensitivity than traditional surrogate markers."'
GSE13513_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The dioxin congener 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes a wide range of toxic effects in rodent species, all of which are mediated by a ligand-dependent transcription-factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). The Han/Wistar (Kuopio) (H/W) strain shows exceptional resistance to many TCDD-induced toxicities; the LD50 of >9600 µg/kg for H/W rats is higher than for any other wild-type mammal known. We have previously shown that this resistance primarily results from H/W rats expressing a variant AHR isoform that has a substantial portion of the AHR transactivation domain deleted. Despite this large deletion, H/W rats are not entirely refractory to the effects of TCDD; the variant AHR in these animals remains fully competent to up-regulate well-known dioxin-inducible genes. TCDD-sensitive (Long-Evans, L-E) and resistant (H/W) rats were treated with either corn-oil (with or without feed-restriction) or 100 µg/kg TCDD for either four or ten days. Hepatic transcriptional profiling was done using microarrays, and was validated by RT-PCR analysis of 41 genes. . A core set of genes was altered in both strains at all time points tested, including CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, Nqo1, Aldh3a1, Tiparp, Exoc3, and Inmt. Outside this core, the strains differed significantly in the breadth of response: three-fold more genes were altered in L-E than H/W rats. At ten days almost all expressed genes were dysregulated in L-E rats, likely reflecting emerging toxic responses. Far fewer genes were affected by feed-restriction, suggesting that only a minority of the TCDD-induced changes are secondary to the wasting syndrome."'
GSE13537_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene knockdown and depolarization time course"'
GSE14658_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"(HMGA2). To elucidate the role of HMGA2 in the transcriptional network affected by oncogenic signaling, we used an integrated approach combining RNAi-mediated silencing, microarray-based expression profiling, computational prediction of transcription factor binding sites in target gene promoters and phenotypic analysis. Knocking-down HMGA2 resulted in the reversion of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, loss of anchorage independence and in a substantial restoration of the gene expression pattern characteristic of non-transformed ROSE cells. Computational prediction of transcription factor binding sites in the promoters of HMGA2-regulated genes and expression profiling revealed a preferential role of activator complex-1 (AP-1) components Fra-1 and JunB in target gene regulation. Forced expression of HMGA2 did not transform normal ovarian epithelial cells, suggesting that HMGA2 up-regulation is not sufficient for inducing the transformed phenotype, but mediates cancer-specific phenotypic traits in cells expressing mutated KRAS and, hence, oncogene addiction."'
GSE14658_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"(HMGA2). To elucidate the role of HMGA2 in the transcriptional network affected by oncogenic signaling, we used an integrated approach combining RNAi-mediated silencing, microarray-based expression profiling, computational prediction of transcription factor binding sites in target gene promoters and phenotypic analysis. Knocking-down HMGA2 resulted in the reversion of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, loss of anchorage independence and in a substantial restoration of the gene expression pattern characteristic of non-transformed ROSE cells. Computational prediction of transcription factor binding sites in the promoters of HMGA2-regulated genes and expression profiling revealed a preferential role of activator complex-1 (AP-1) components Fra-1 and JunB in target gene regulation. Forced expression of HMGA2 did not transform normal ovarian epithelial cells, suggesting that HMGA2 up-regulation is not sufficient for inducing the transformed phenotype, but mediates cancer-specific phenotypic traits in cells expressing mutated KRAS and, hence, oncogene addiction."'
GSE14902_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Behaviour is derived from complex molecular interactions within the brain, in response to specific environmental stimuli. In some rare cases, the direct causes of behaviour have been attributed to the interactions of a single or small group of gene transcripts and proteins. We conducted two experiments with the hope of defining some of the molecular interactors for four separate behaviours: sugar feeding, locomotor activity in a novel field, and acoustic startle reflex, and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, which have been linked to prefrontal cortex dopaminergic function or as predictors of sensorimotor gating in diseases such as schizophrenia. Rats with high and low response phenotypes were selected to determine the differences between these two extremes of behaviour. From our analyses, transcripts of Homer1, a neuronal scaffolding protein which interacts with group1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, were found to be significantly correlated with array data in both experiments, and with behaviour data across three separate tests in the second experiment, indicating that this gene's transcripts and probably downstream protein interactions have a significant correlation with behaviour phenotype in the inbred Lewis rat. Future areas of pursuit for this data should involve modification of the expression of Homer1 in an isolated fashion to determine a pharmacological threshold for differences in behaviour."'
GSE14903_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Behaviour is derived from complex molecular interactions within the brain, in response to specific environmental stimuli. In some rare cases, the direct causes of behaviour have been attributed to the interactions of a single or small group of gene transcripts and proteins. We conducted two experiments with the hope of defining some of the molecular interactors for four separate behaviours: sugar feeding, locomotor activity in a novel field, and acoustic startle reflex, and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, which have been linked to prefrontal cortex dopaminergic function or as predictors of sensorimotor gating in diseases such as schizophrenia. Rats with high and low response phenotypes were selected to determine the differences between these two extremes of behaviour. From our analyses, transcripts of Homer1, a neuronal scaffolding protein which interacts with group1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, were found to be significantly correlated with array data in both experiments, and with behaviour data across three separate tests in the second experiment, indicating that this gene's transcripts and probably downstream protein interactions have a significant correlation with behaviour phenotype in the inbred Lewis rat. Future areas of pursuit for this data should involve modification of the expression of Homer1 in an isolated fashion to determine a pharmacological threshold for differences in behaviour."'
GSE14904-GPL1355_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Behaviour is derived from complex molecular interactions within the brain, in response to specific environmental stimuli. In some rare cases, the direct causes of behaviour have been attributed to the interactions of a single or small group of gene transcripts and proteins. We conducted two experiments with the hope of defining some of the molecular interactors for four separate behaviours: sugar feeding, locomotor activity in a novel field, and acoustic startle reflex, and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, which have been linked to prefrontal cortex dopaminergic function or as predictors of sensorimotor gating in diseases such as schizophrenia. Rats with high and low response phenotypes were selected to determine the differences between these two extremes of behaviour. From our analyses, transcripts of Homer1, a neuronal scaffolding protein which interacts with group1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, were found to be significantly correlated with array data in both experiments, and with behaviour data across three separate tests in the second experiment, indicating that this gene's transcripts and probably downstream protein interactions have a significant correlation with behaviour phenotype in the inbred Lewis rat. Future areas of pursuit for this data should involve modification of the expression of Homer1 in an isolated fashion to determine a pharmacological threshold for differences in behaviour."'
GSE14904-GPL341_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Behaviour is derived from complex molecular interactions within the brain, in response to specific environmental stimuli. In some rare cases, the direct causes of behaviour have been attributed to the interactions of a single or small group of gene transcripts and proteins. We conducted two experiments with the hope of defining some of the molecular interactors for four separate behaviours: sugar feeding, locomotor activity in a novel field, and acoustic startle reflex, and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, which have been linked to prefrontal cortex dopaminergic function or as predictors of sensorimotor gating in diseases such as schizophrenia. Rats with high and low response phenotypes were selected to determine the differences between these two extremes of behaviour. From our analyses, transcripts of Homer1, a neuronal scaffolding protein which interacts with group1 metabotropic glutamate receptors, were found to be significantly correlated with array data in both experiments, and with behaviour data across three separate tests in the second experiment, indicating that this gene's transcripts and probably downstream protein interactions have a significant correlation with behaviour phenotype in the inbred Lewis rat. Future areas of pursuit for this data should involve modification of the expression of Homer1 in an isolated fashion to determine a pharmacological threshold for differences in behaviour."'
GSE14962_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to examine the temporal transcriptome changes of vitamin a deficient rats testes replenished with retinol"'
GSE14962_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"20-day old rats were put on a vitamin A deficient diet, after nine weeks the animals were treated with retinol for 0-(VAD), 4-, 8-, 24-hr to determine the global transcriptome changes induced by retinol replenishment of the vitmain A deficient testis"'
