GSE11439_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The retina plays an important regulatory role in ocular growth. To screen for new retinal candidate genes that could be involved in the inhibition of ocular growth, we used chick microarrays to analyze the changes in retinal mRNA expression after myopic defocus was imposed by positive lens-wear."'
GSE11597_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Global gene expression profiling of the avian B-lymphoma DT40 cell line was used as a model to differentiate among Btk KO and Btk KO cells reconstituted with human Btk. Differences in the gene expression pattern showed statistically significant changes between parental DT40 and all the Btk KO cell populations irrespective of whether they are reconstituted or not. These results imply that in the process of generating a knockout cell line, subclones are selected, which have multiple changes in their gene expression pattern (p<0.01)."'
GSE11597_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"Global gene expression profiling of the avian B-lymphoma DT40 cell line was used as a model to differentiate among Btk KO and Btk KO cells reconstituted with human Btk. Differences in the gene expression pattern showed statistically significant changes between parental DT40 and all the Btk KO cell populations irrespective of whether they are reconstituted or not. These results imply that in the process of generating a knockout cell line, subclones are selected, which have multiple changes in their gene expression pattern (p<0.01)."'
GSE14489_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Cell transformation by the Src tyrosine kinase is characterized by extensive changes in gene expression.  To describe these changes, investigators have relied extensively on the study of immortalized rodent cell lines or heterogeneous tumor samples that limit the identification of differentially expressed genes or may not represent the full spectrum of biological processes regulated during transformation.  In this study, we took advantage of transformation-deficient and temperature sensitive mutants of the Rous sarcoma virus to characterize the patterns of gene expression in two types of primary cells, namely chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) and chicken neuro-retinal (CNR) cells."'
GSE14489_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: viral transformation of primary cells, transformation, transformation deficient mutant, temperature sensitive mutant, v-Src"'
GSE14489_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: viral transformation of primary cells, transformation, transformation deficient mutant, temperature sensitive mutant, v-Src"'
GSE14783_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The inner ear utilizes sensory hair cells as mechano-electric transducers for sensing sound and balance. In mammals, these hair cells lack the capacity for regeneration. Unlike mammals, hair cells from non-mammalian vertebrates, such as birds, can be regenerated throughout the life of the organism making them a useful model for studying inner ear genetics pathways. The zinc finger transcription factor GATA3 is required for inner ear development and mutations cause sensory neural deafness in humans. In the avian cochlea GATA3 is expressed throughout the sensory epithelia; however, expression is limited to the striola of the utricle. The striola corresponds to an abrupt change in morphologically distinct hair cell types and a 180° shift in hair cell orientation. We used 3 complimentary approaches to identify potential downstream targets of GATA3 in the avian utricle. Specifically we used microarray expression profiling of GATA3 knockdown by siRNA and GATA3 over-expression treatments as well as direct comparisons of GATA3 expressing cells from the striola and non GATA3 expressing cells from the extra-striola. "'
GSE14784_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The inner ear utilizes sensory hair cells as mechano-electric transducers for sensing sound and balance. In mammals, these hair cells lack the capacity for regeneration. Unlike mammals, hair cells from non-mammalian vertebrates, such as birds, can be regenerated throughout the life of the organism making them a useful model for studying inner ear genetics pathways. The zinc finger transcription factor GATA3 is required for inner ear development and mutations cause sensory neural deafness in humans. In the avian cochlea GATA3 is expressed throughout the sensory epithelia; however, expression is limited to the striola of the utricle. The striola corresponds to an abrupt change in morphologically distinct hair cell types and a 180° shift in hair cell orientation. We used 3 complimentary approaches to identify potential downstream targets of GATA3 in the avian utricle. Specifically we used microarray expression profiling of GATA3 knockdown by siRNA and GATA3 over-expression treatments as well as direct comparisons of GATA3 expressing cells from the striola and non GATA3 expressing cells from the extra-striola."'
GSE14785_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The inner ear utilizes sensory hair cells as mechano-electric transducers for sensing sound and balance. In mammals, these hair cells lack the capacity for regeneration. Unlike mammals, hair cells from non-mammalian vertebrates, such as birds, can be regenerated throughout the life of the organism making them a useful model for studying inner ear genetics pathways. The zinc finger transcription factor GATA3 is required for inner ear development and mutations cause sensory neural deafness in humans. In the avian cochlea GATA3 is expressed throughout the sensory epithelia; however, expression is limited to the striola of the utricle. The striola corresponds to an abrupt change in morphologically distinct hair cell types and a 180° shift in hair cell orientation. We used 3 complimentary approaches to identify potential downstream targets of GATA3 in the avian utricle. Specifically we used microarray expression profiling of GATA3 knockdown by siRNA and GATA3 over-expression treatments as well as direct comparisons of GATA3 expressing cells from the striola and non GATA3 expressing cells from the extra-striola."'
