GSE10757_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"For each mutant analysis, at least fivefold redundancy was employed in culture preparation and mRNA isolation.  In addition, each microarray slide contains three complete copies of the array design giving at least 15 data points (5 slides X 3 copies per slide) for each oligonucleotide probe spot.  Respective E. coli mRNA pools were harvested at mid-log phase from cells grown in Luria-Bertani (Miller) medium at 37C."'
GSE10974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To identify regulatory responses that could give clues as to the cause(s) of the growth arrest observed in E. coli cells expressing mutant Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) and Hsp10 versus cells expressing wild type Hsp60 and Hsp10, we performed microarray analyses. We reasoned that the decreased chaperonin activity of the Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) protein would greatly impair or abolish folding of E. coli proteins that depend on chaperonin assistance. The resulting decreased levels of various activities may cause compensatory up-regulation or deregulation of genes. The transcriptomes of cells shifted to expression of the arabinose-inducible chaperonin operon with either the Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) mutant or the wild type Hsp60 from the second plasmid were compared. RNA samples from three independent cultures expressing the mutant or two independent cultures expressing wild type Hsp60 were pooled, respectively. "'
GSE10974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"B178 (groELS)-deleted cells double-transformed with two plasmids harboring an IPTG-inducible operon with wild type human Hsp60 and Hsp10 and a second plasmid harboring an arabinose inducible operon with either Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) and Hsp10 (mutant cells) or wild type Hsp60 and Hsp10 (wild type cells) were grown in dYT medium (21) supplemented with kanamycin (10 mg/L), ampicillin (100 mg/L) and IPTG (0.1mM) at 30°C in a shaking water bath. At OD536 ≈ 0.1 bacteria were harvested by centrifugation at ambient temperature, resuspended in fresh medium, and 0.2% arabinose was added. Growth was continued at 30°C. After 10 hours 3ml samples were withdrawn and RNA was isolated. "'
GSE10974_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two independent transformant clones of the wild type cells and three of the mutant cells were grown in this way. The RNA preps from the 2 wild type and the three mutant cells, respectively, were pooled, cDNA was synthesized, labelled and subjected to Affymetrix arrays."'
GSE11183_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We used microarrays to investigate global bacterial gene expression in five genotypes of E. coli C600: WT (JO2057), hupA (JO2081), hupB (JO2083), hupAB (JO3020) and rpoS (MW30) at three growth growth phases: exponential, transition and stationary and in three growth media: LB, M9 minimal Glucose and M9 minimal Glycerol. The most relevant experiments were carried out in duplicate: the wild type (JO2057) and the hupAB (JO3020) strains were tested in the exponential and stationary phase, in LB. Wild type and hupAB strains were also tested in single experiments at the transition phase in LB. The single hupA (JO2081) and single hupB (JO2083) mutants were tested at the three growth phases in LB. Wild type and hupAB strains were compared in single experiments both in M9 Minimal Glucose and M9 Minimal Glycerol at the exponential and stationary phase. The last chips were used to test respectively the rpoS mutant at the at the exponential and stationary phase in LB."'
GSE11562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We investigated the impact of cadmium on the global transcriptome of E. coli wild type, ∆gshA and ∆gshB mutant cells to evaluate the molecular basis of cadmium toxicity in the presence or absence of cellular thiols. This global transcriptome analysis were done with cells synthezising GSH (wild type), gamma-glutamyl-cysteine (∆gshB mutant) or neither of the two cellular thiols (∆gshA mutant) under the influence of 100 µM Cd(II)."'
GSE11562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"E. coli cells, wild type, ∆gshA and ∆gshB mutant strain, were grown at 37 °C . At a cell turbidity of 100 Klett, cells were treated for 10 min with 100 µM Cd(II) or no metal as a control in TMM medium."'
GSE11779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The Escherichia coli quorum-sensing regulator, SdiA, belongs to the LuxR family of transcriptional regulators and is responsible for detecting signals from other bacteria.  Previously we found that SdiA is necessary for E. coli to control its biofilm formation with indole just as SdiA is necessary for E. coli to alter its biofilm formation in the presence of N-acylhomoserine lactones (AHLs).  Here we engineered SdiA by random mutagenesis to further control biofilm formation in the presence of indole and AHLs. After screening of 477?? mutants with indole and two AHLs (N-butyryl-DL-homoserine lactone, and N-(3-oxooctanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone, C6HSL), five SdiA variants were obtained that altered biofilm with and without signals of indole and AHLs.  Two truncation variants (1E11 and 14C3) lacking the C-terminal DNA-binding domain of SdiA showed the reduction of biofilm formation by 5-fold and 10-fold in LB and LB glu, respectively.  DNA microarrays show that the evolved SdiA (1E11) compared to wild-type SdiA influences indole synthesis genes, AI-2 uptake genes, acid-resistance genes, motility related genes, cold-shock protein genes, and several regulatory protein genes. Corroborating DNA microarrays, SdiA variants produced various amounts of indole which led to different survivals in low pH and influenced swimming motility and final cell density. Also, an AHL sensitive variant (2D10) 2-fold increased biofilm formation in the presence of C6HSL, while another variant (6B12) lowered biofilm formation in the presence of C6HSL. Hence, the results clearly showed that mutation of SdiA itself directly controls biofilm formation and SdiA variants could be further recognized by the inter-species signal AHLs. This is the first random protein engineering to control biofilm formation."'
GSE11927_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"RCV02 (cadA deficient) v wild-type enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC)"'
GSE11927_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Adherence of pathogenic Escherichia coli strains to intestinal epithelia is essential for infection. For enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) serotype O157:H7, we have previously demonstrated that multiple factors govern this pathogen’s adherence to HeLa cells (39). One of these factors is CadA, a lysine decarboxylase, and this protein has been proposed to negatively regulate virulence in several enteric pathogens. In the case of EHEC strains, CadA modulates expression of the intimin, an outer membrane adhesin involved in pathogenesis. Here, we experimentally inactivated cadA in O157:H7 strain 86-24 to investigate the role of this gene in EHEC adhesion to tissue culture monolayers, global gene expression patterns, and colonization of the infant rabbit intestine. As expected, the cadA mutant did not possess lysine decarboxylation activity and was hyper-adherent to tissue-culture cells. Adherence of the cadA mutant was nearly 2-fold greater than that of the wt and complementation of the cadA defect reduced adherence back to wt levels. Furthermore, the cadA mutant affected the expression of intimin protein. Disruption of the eae gene (encoding the intimin protein) in the cadA mutant significantly reduced its adherence to tissue-culture cells. However, adherence of the cadA eae double mutant was greater than that of an 86-24 eae mutant, suggesting that the enhanced adherence of the cadA mutant is not entirely attributable to enhanced expression of intimin in this  background. Gene array analysis revealed that the cadA mutation significantly altered EHEC gene expression patterns; expression of 1332 genes was down-regulated and 132 genes up-regulated in the mutant compared to the wild type strain. Interestingly, the gene expression variation shows an EHEC-biased gene alteration including intergenic regions. Two putative adhesins: flagella and F9 fimbriae were up-regulated in the cadA mutant, suggestive of their association with adherence in absence of the Cad regulatory mechanism. Remarkably, in the infant rabbit model, the cadA mutant out-competed the wild type strain in the ileum but not in the cecum or mid-colon, raising the possibility that CadA negatively regulates EHEC pathogenicity in a tissue-specific fashion."'
GSE11932_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Comparison between E. coli K-12 MG1655 and E. coli K-12 LVM100 delta 5 TA mutant on biofilm cell development"'
GSE11932_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strains: E. coli K-12 MG1655 and E. coli K-12 LVM100 delta 5 TA mutant"'
GSE12554_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: growth inhibition of cranberry juice"'
GSE12701_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Comparison between E. coli K-12 BW25113 wt and E. coli K-12 BW25113 yjgK deleted mutant on 8 h biofilm cell development"'
GSE12701_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strains: E. coli K-12 BW25113 wild-type and E. coli BW25113 yjgK deleted mutant"'
GSE13132_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Integrating laterally acquired virulence genes into the backbone regulatory network is important for the pathogenesis of Escherichia coli O157:H7, which has captured many virulence genes through horizontal transfer during evolution. GadE is an essential transcriptional activator of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) system, the most efficient acid resistance mechanism in E. coli. The full contribution of GadE to the acid resistance and virulence of pathogenic E. coli O157:H7 remains largely unknown. We inactivated gadE in E. coli O157:H7 Sakai and compared global transcription profiles with that of wild type in exponential and stationary phases of growth using microarrays containing 6088 ORFs from three E. coli genomes. gadE inactivation significantly altered the expression of 60 genes independent of growth phase and 122 genes in a growth phase-dependent manner. Inactivation of gadE markedly down-regulated the expression of gadA, gadB, gadC and many acid fitness island genes in a growth phase-dependent manner. Nineteen genes encoded on the locus of enterocyte effacement (LEE), including ler, showed a significant increase in expression upon gadE inactivation. Altogether, our data indicate that GadE is critical for acid resistance of E. coli O157:H7 and plays an important role in virulence by down-regulating expression of LEE.   "'
GSE13132_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"The results are based on O157:H7 Sakai wild type and gadE mutant exponential and stationary phase cultures grown in MOPS minimal medium. Differences in transcript levels were determined using a mixed model ANOVA in R/MAANOVA which tested for significant differences due to growth phase (exponential or stationary), strain (wild type or mutant) and the interaction of these two factors using the following linear model: array+dye+sample (biological replicate)+ phase+strain+phase*strain. We incorporated the dye-swaps among the biological replicates."'
GSE13562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"A study on the effects of an sdiA mutant and the AHL molecule on the virulence of EHEC"'
GSE13562_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Comparison of wild type E. coli 8624 with and without AHL to and E. coli 8624 sdiA mutant with and without AHL to determine the effects of each factor on gene expression"'
GSE13666_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The RpoS sigma factor protein of Escherichia coli is the master transcriptional regulator of physiological responses to a variety of stresses.  This stress response comes at the expense of scavenging for scarce resources, causing a trade-off between stress tolerance and nutrient acquisition.  This trade-off favors non-functional rpoS alleles in nutrient-poor environments. We used experimental evolution to explore how natural selection modifies the regulatory network of strains lacking RpoS when they are evolved in an osmotically stressful environment. We found that strains lacking RpoS adapt less variably, in terms of both fitness increase and changes in patterns of transcription, than strains with functional RpoS.  This phenotypic uniformity was caused by the same adaptive mutation in every independent population: the insertion of IS10 into the promoter of otsBA.  OtsA and OtsB are required to synthesize the osmoprotectant trehalose, and transcription of otsBA requires RpoS in the wild-type genetic background. The evolved IS10 insertion rewires expression of otsBA from RpoS-dependent to RpoS-independent, allowing for partial restoration of wild-type response to osmotic stress.  Our results show that the regulatory networks of bacteria"'
GSE14064-GPL199_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"E. coli BW25113 ompA mutant vs wild type biofilm and E. coli BW25113 ompA/pCA24N_ompA vs ompA/pCA24N suspension cells"'
GSE14064-GPL199_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"This Series involves two studies: 1) The gene expression of E. coli K-12 BW25113 ompA mutant strain vs. wild type strain glasswool biofilm cells and E. coli K-12 BW25113 ompA mutant vs. wild type polystyrene biofilm cells. 2) The gene expression of E. coli BW25113 ompA/pCA24N_ompA vs. ompA/pCA24N suspension cells."'
GSE14064-GPL199_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strains: E. coli K-12 BW25113 wild type, ompA mutant"'
GSE14064-GPL3154_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"E. coli BW25113 ompA mutant vs wild type biofilm and E. coli BW25113 ompA/pCA24N_ompA vs ompA/pCA24N suspension cells"'
GSE14064-GPL3154_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"This Series involves two studies: 1) The gene expression of E. coli K-12 BW25113 ompA mutant strain vs. wild type strain glasswool biofilm cells and E. coli K-12 BW25113 ompA mutant vs. wild type polystyrene biofilm cells. 2) The gene expression of E. coli BW25113 ompA/pCA24N_ompA vs. ompA/pCA24N suspension cells."'
GSE14064-GPL3154_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strains: E. coli K-12 BW25113 wild type, ompA mutant"'
GSE14203-GPL199_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strain: E. coli K-12 BW25113 wt and mqsR deleted mutant "'
GSE14203-GPL3154_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strain: E. coli K-12 BW25113 wt and mqsR deleted mutant "'
GSE14472_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"CP4-57-deficient vs. wild-type"'
GSE14472_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Previously, we discovered that the global regulator Hha is related to cell death in biofilms and regulates cryptic prophage genes.  Here we show Hha induces excision of prophage CP4-57 and DLP12 by inducing excision genes and by reducing SsrA synthesis.  SsrA is a tmRNA important for rescuing stalled ribosomes, contains an attachment site for CP4-57, and is shown here to be required for CP4-57 excision.  These prophages impact biofilm development as deletion of 35 genes individually of prophage CP4-57 and DLP12 increase biofilm formation up to 17-fold, and 5 genes decrease biofilm formation up to 6-fold.  In addition, CP4-57 excises during early biofilm development but not in planktonic cells, whereas DLP12 excision was detected at all the developmental stages for both biofilm and planktonic cells.  CP4-57 excision leads to a chromosome region devoid of the prophage and formation of a phage circle (which is lost).  These results were corroborated by a whole-transcriptome analysis that showed that complete loss of CP4-57 activated expression of the flg, flh, and fli motility operons and repressed expression of key enzymes in the tricarboxylic acid cycle and enzymes for lactate utilization.  Prophage excision also results in the expression of cell lysis genes that reduce cell viability (e.g., alpA, intA, and intD).  Hence, defective prophage are involved in host physiology via Hha and in biofilm formation by generating a diversified population with specialized functions in terms of motility and nutrient metabolism."'
GSE14472_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Previously, we discovered that the global regulator Hha is related to cell death in biofilms and regulates cryptic prophage genes.  Here we show Hha induces excision of prophage CP4-57 and DLP12 by inducing excision genes and by reducing SsrA synthesis.  SsrA is a tmRNA important for rescuing stalled ribosomes, contains an attachment site for CP4-57, and is shown here to be required for CP4-57 excision.  These prophages impact biofilm development as deletion of 35 genes individually of prophage CP4-57 and DLP12 increase biofilm formation up to 17-fold, and 5 genes decrease biofilm formation up to 6-fold.  In addition, CP4-57 excises during early biofilm development but not in planktonic cells, whereas DLP12 excision was detected at all the developmental stages for both biofilm and planktonic cells.  CP4-57 excision leads to a chromosome region devoid of the prophage and formation of a phage circle (which is lost).  These results were corroborated by a whole-transcriptome analysis that showed that complete loss of CP4-57 activated expression of the flg, flh, and fli motility operons and repressed expression of key enzymes in the tricarboxylic acid cycle and enzymes for lactate utilization.  Prophage excision also results in the expression of cell lysis genes that reduce cell viability (e.g., alpA, intA, and intD).  Hence, defective prophage are involved in host physiology via Hha and in biofilm formation by generating a diversified population with specialized functions in terms of motility and nutrient metabolism."'
GSE14472_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"Strain: CP4-57-deficient vs. wild-type"'
