GSE10883-GPL6600_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The zebrafish u-boot (ubo) gene encodes the transcription factor Prdm1, which is essential for the specification of the primary slow twitch muscle fibres that derive from adaxial cells. Here we show that Prdm1 executes this function by acting as a transcriptional repressor. Expression of the slow twitch isoform of the myosin heavy chain in adaxial cells is achieved by Prdm1 mediated repression of the transcriptional repressor Sox6. Using Chromatin immuno precipitation (ChIP) we found that genes encoding fast specific isoforms of sarcomeric proteins are direct targets of Prdm1. These genes are ectopically expressed in the adaxial cells of ubotp39 mutant embryos, suggesting that Prdm1 promotes slow twitch fibre differentiation by acting both as a global repressor of fast fibre specific genes as well as of a repressor of slow specific genes."'
GSE10883-GPL6601_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The zebrafish u-boot (ubo) gene encodes the transcription factor Prdm1, which is essential for the specification of the primary slow twitch muscle fibres that derive from adaxial cells. Here we show that Prdm1 executes this function by acting as a transcriptional repressor. Expression of the slow twitch isoform of the myosin heavy chain in adaxial cells is achieved by Prdm1 mediated repression of the transcriptional repressor Sox6. Using Chromatin immuno precipitation (ChIP) we found that genes encoding fast specific isoforms of sarcomeric proteins are direct targets of Prdm1. These genes are ectopically expressed in the adaxial cells of ubotp39 mutant embryos, suggesting that Prdm1 promotes slow twitch fibre differentiation by acting both as a global repressor of fast fibre specific genes as well as of a repressor of slow specific genes."'
GSE10951_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The objectives of this study were to characterize gene expression responses to hypoxia in gonads of mature zebrafish (Danio rerio), and to start characterizing modes of action by which hypoxia could potentially alter reproduction. Adult male and female zebrafish were maintained under normoxia (7 mg O2/L), moderate hypoxia (3 mg O2/L) and severe hypoxia (1 mg O2/L) for 4 and 14 days (n = 5 per treatment) and changes in gene expression in gonadal tissues were evaluated using a commercial 21,000 gene zebrafish oligonucleotide microarray. Differentially expressed genes were determined using ANOVA (p < 0.01), and enriched gene ontology (GO) categories (p < 0.05) identified using GeneSpring GX software (Agilent, USA). Short-term (4 d) exposure to hypoxia affected expression of genes associated with the initial adaptive responses such as: metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins, nucleotide metabolism, haemoglobin synthesis, reactive oxygen species metabolism and locomotion. More prolonged (14 d) hypoxia affected a suite of genes belonging to different GO categories: lipid metabolism, reproduction (e.g., steroid hormone synthesis), and immune responses (cytokine synthesis). The results of the present study demonstrate that reproduction likely would be affected by hypoxia via multiple modes of action. These include previously hypothesized mechanisms such as inhibition of steroidogenesis via modulation of expression of steroidogenic genes, and downregulation of serotonergic pathway. But, in addition to these, we propose that there are multiple other points of disruption of reproductive system function linked, for example, to reorganization of lipid transport and other mechanisms involved in responding to hypoxia (e.g., hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase alterations, downregulation of contractile elements etc.).  "'
GSE11107_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarray analyses in adult female zebrafish (Danio rerio) to identify metabolic pathways regulated by starvation in two key organs that 1) serve biosynthetic and energy mobilizing functions (liver) and 2) consume energy and direct behavioral responses (brain).  Starvation affected the expression of 574 transcripts in the liver, indicating an overall decrease in metabolic activity, reduced lipid metabolism, protein biosynthesis and proteolysis, and cellular respiration, and increased gluconeogenesis.  Starvation also regulated expression of many components of the Unfolded Protein Response, the first such report in a species other than yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and mice (Mus musculus).  The response of the zebrafish hepatic transcriptome to starvation was strikingly similar to that of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), but very different from common carp (Cyprinus carpio) and mouse.  The transcriptome of zebrafish whole brain was much less affected than the liver, with only two differentially expressed genes, both down-regulated.  Down-regulation of one of these genes, matrix metalloproteinase 9 (mmp9), suggests increased inhibition of apoptosis (neuroprotection) and decreased restructuring of the extracellular matrix in the brain of starved zebrafish.  The low level of response in the transcriptome of whole zebrafish brain agrees with observations that the brain is metabolically protected compared to the rest of the body."'
GSE11893_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Exposure to environmental contaminants can disrupt normal development of the early vertebrate skeleton.  2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) impairs craniofacial skeletal development across many vertebrate species and its effects are especially prominent in early life stages of fish.  TCDD activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), a transcription factor that mediates most if not all TCDD responses.  We investigated the transcriptional response in the developing zebrafish jaw following TCDD exposure using DNA microarrays.  Zebrafish larvae were exposed to TCDD at 96 h postfertilization (hpf) and jaw cartilage tissue was harvested for microarray analysis at 1, 2, 4 and 12 h postexposure (hpe).  Numerous chondrogenic transcripts were misregulated by TCDD in the jaw.  Comparison of transcripts altered by TCDD in jaw with transcripts altered in embryonic heart showed that the transcriptional responses in the jaw and the heart were strikingly different.  Sox9b, a critical chondrogenic transcription factor, was the most significantly reduced transcript in the jaw.  We hypothesized that the TCDD reduction of sox9b expression plays an integral role in affecting formation of the embryonic jaw.  Morpholino knock down of sox9b expression demonstrated that partial reduction of sox9b expression alone was sufficient to produce a TCDD-like jaw phenotype.  Heterozygous sox9b deletion mutant embryos were sensitized to TCDD.  Lastly, embryos injected with sox9b mRNA and then exposed to TCDD blocked TCDD-induced jaw toxicity in approximately 14% of sox9b-injected embryos.  These results suggest that reduced sox9b expression in TCDD-exposed zebrafish embryos contributes to jaw malformation."'
GSE11893_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Exposure to environmental contaminants can disrupt normal development of the early vertebrate skeleton.  2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) impairs craniofacial skeletal development across many vertebrate species and its effects are especially prominent in early life stages of fish.  TCDD activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), a transcription factor that mediates most if not all TCDD responses.  We investigated the transcriptional response in the developing zebrafish jaw following TCDD exposure using DNA microarrays.  Zebrafish larvae were exposed to TCDD at 96 h postfertilization (hpf) and jaw cartilage tissue was harvested for microarray analysis at 1, 2, 4 and 12 h postexposure (hpe).  Numerous chondrogenic transcripts were misregulated by TCDD in the jaw.  Comparison of transcripts altered by TCDD in jaw with transcripts altered in embryonic heart showed that the transcriptional responses in the jaw and the heart were strikingly different.  Sox9b, a critical chondrogenic transcription factor, was the most significantly reduced transcript in the jaw.  We hypothesized that the TCDD reduction of sox9b expression plays an integral role in affecting formation of the embryonic jaw.  Morpholino knock down of sox9b expression demonstrated that partial reduction of sox9b expression alone was sufficient to produce a TCDD-like jaw phenotype.  Heterozygous sox9b deletion mutant embryos were sensitized to TCDD.  Lastly, embryos injected with sox9b mRNA and then exposed to TCDD blocked TCDD-induced jaw toxicity in approximately 14% of sox9b-injected embryos.  These results suggest that reduced sox9b expression in TCDD-exposed zebrafish embryos contributes to jaw malformation."'
GSE12012_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12012_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12012_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12214_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"Water samples for microcystin analysis and water quality measurements were taken during the experiment, and mortality and behavioral observations were recorded at 24-hour intervals. Microcystin analysis was conducted by protein phosphatase inhibition assay.  Measured concentrations of microcystin-LR were 140 ± 12 SD (low concentration) and 1,703 ± 71 SD (high concentration).  The concentration of microcystin-LR in the lyophilized Microcystis treatment was 4.5 µg/L.  Water quality parameters measured included dissolved oxygen (6.7 mg/L), pH (6.9), total alkalinity (36 mg/L as CaCO3), total hardness (18 mg/L as CaCO3), and ammonia (<0.2 mg/L). No significant mortality or behavioral changes in larvae were observed during the exposure."'
GSE12655_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_title	"Transcriptional profiling of rag1 deficient (rag1-/-) and rag1 heterozygous (rag1+/-) zebrafish kidney and intestine"'
GSE12655_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Four dual hybridizations of rag1 deficient (rag1-/-) and rag1 heterozygous (rag1+/-) zebrafish cRNAs from kidney and intestine."'
GSE12655_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Gene knockout"'
GSE12826_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Zebrafish 24hpf mutant sk8 gene expression"'
GSE12826_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the global expression of gene expression at 24 hours post fertilization in wild-type and Spt5 mutant (fog-sk8) to identify Spt5 transcriptionally dependent genes and affected pathways. Here we report that a mutation in zebrafish spt5, sk8, deregulates <5% of ~10,000 genes examined.  These findings reveal a small but diverse set of developmentally regulated genes, whose expression is critically dependent on Spt5-regulated RNAPII stalling in vertebrate development."'
GSE12991_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The goal of the project was to isolate single miRNA-expressing cells labelled by GFP reporter genes under the control of endogenous miRNA promoters and analyze expression levels of miRNA target genes in these cells. GFP-positive miRNA-expressing cells and GFP-negative cells from the rest of the embryos were purified at the same developmental stage to the cellular resolution using fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).  Focus was on regulation by miR-206 and miR-133 in the developing somites and miR-124 in the developing central nervous system. Comparison of wild-type embryos and those lacking miRNAs revealed predicted"'
GSE12991_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using FACS, GFP-negative and GFP-positive cells were isolated from two different miRNA reporter wild-type lines as well as from a Dicer-mutant zebrafish line at the same developmental stage (14-16 somites). Three biological replicates for each condition were used for microarray analyses. "'
GSE13050_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To identify the genes differentially expressed in the zebrafish mibta52b mutant, genome-wide transcriptome analysis was performed using Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE). 335 transcripts were identified whose expressions were significantly altered in the mibta52b mutant as compared with the wild-type."'
GSE13068_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Investigating neuronal and photoreceptor regeneration in the retina of zebrafish has begun to yield insights into both the cellular and molecular means by which this lower vertebrate is able to repair its central nervous system. However, knowledge about the signaling molecules in the local microenvironment of a retinal injury and the transcriptional events they activate during neuronal death and regeneration is still lacking.  To identify genes involved in photoreceptor regeneration, we combined light-induced photoreceptor lesions, laser-capture microdissection (LCM) of the outer nuclear layer (ONL) and analysis of gene expression to characterize transcriptional changes for cells in the ONL as photoreceptors die and are regenerated. Using this approach, we were able to characterize aspects of the molecular signature of injured and dying photoreceptors, cone photoreceptor progenitors and microglia within the ONL. We validated changes in gene expression and characterized the cellular expression for three novel, extracellular signaling molecules that we hypothesize are involved in regulating regenerative events in the retina."'
GSE13348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Foggy mutant: brain (Guo-1R01NS042626-01A2)"'
GSE13348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The foggy mutant zebrafish show severe deficits in dopaminergic neurons, thus is an important  tool to understanding the development of these neurons, which undergo degeneration in Parkinson's disease.  Molecular study reveals that the foggy gene encodes a regulator of transcription elongation.  Biochemical study suggests that the repressive activity of the Foggy protein is lost in the foggy mutant.  The genes whose expression is normally repressed by Foggy are likely to play important roles in dopamine neuron development. However, their identity is unknown.  Finding out these target genes of Foggy will provide important insights into dopamine neuron development and regeneration.  They will also serve as an entry point to elucidate the role of transcription elongation in controlling neuronal development."'
GSE13348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We will identify genes whose expression is altered in the foggy mutant. Their expression pattern and functional significance will be examined in zebrafish through in situ hybridization and morpholino antisense knockdowm methods."'
GSE13348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The species noted above is Drosophila however we are using ZEBRAFISH. We will examine three stages: 24 hour post fertilization (hpf), 36 hpf, and 48 hpf. During these stages, the dopamine neuron deficits manifest in the foggy mutant. To identify genes whose expression is altered and important for dopamine neuron development, we shall dissect embryonic brain tissues from wildtype and the foggy mutant embryos at the stages mentioned above, and prepare RNA from them.  Since the foggy gene is expressed ubiquitously and also required for proper retinal and cardiovascular development, we would like to compare the gene expression between the whole embryos of wildtype and foggy mutant, to identify all possible downstream targets. We are currently applying for a supplement to support the entire microarray experiment.  As a pilot experiment, we would like to perform 6 array analysis as soon as possible.  Thus, we will examine the 48 hours post fertilzation time point in this pilot experiment and it will be performed in triplicate."'
GSE13348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"This dataset is composed of 36 hours post fertilization wild type and mutants and 12-somite stage Foggy knockdown."'
GSE13482_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The transcription factor gene Sox9 plays various roles in development, including differentiation of the skeleton, testes, glia, and heart. Other functions of Sox9 remain enigmatic. Because Sox9 protein regulates expression of target genes, the identification of Sox9 targets should facilitate an understanding of the mechanisms of Sox9 action. To help identify Sox9 targets, we used microarray expression profiling to compare wild-type embryos to mutant embryos lacking activity for sox9a and sox9b, the zebrafish co-orthologs of Sox9. Candidate genes were further evaluated by whole mount in situ hybridization in wild-type and sox9 mutant embryos. Results identified genes expressed in cartilage (col2a1a and col11a2), retina (calb2a, calb2b, crx, neurod, rs1, sox4a and vsx1) and pectoral fin bud (klf2b and EST AI722369) as candidate targets for Sox9. Cartilage is a well-characterized Sox9 target, which validates this strategy, whereas retina represents a novel Sox9 function. Analysis of mutant phenotypes confirmed that Sox9 helps regulate the number of Müller glia and photoreceptor cells and helps organize the neural retina. These roles in eye development were previously unrecognized and reinforce the multiple functions that Sox9 plays in vertebrate development."'
GSE13482_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The transcription factor gene Sox9 plays various roles in development, including differentiation of the skeleton, testes, glia, and heart. Other functions of Sox9 remain enigmatic. Because Sox9 protein regulates expression of target genes, the identification of Sox9 targets should facilitate an understanding of the mechanisms of Sox9 action. To help identify Sox9 targets, we used microarray expression profiling to compare wild-type embryos to mutant embryos lacking activity for sox9a and sox9b, the zebrafish co-orthologs of Sox9. Candidate genes were further evaluated by whole mount in situ hybridization in wild-type and sox9 mutant embryos. Results identified genes expressed in cartilage (col2a1a and col11a2), retina (calb2a, calb2b, crx, neurod, rs1, sox4a and vsx1) and pectoral fin bud (klf2b and EST AI722369) as candidate targets for Sox9. Cartilage is a well-characterized Sox9 target, which validates this strategy, whereas retina represents a novel Sox9 function. Analysis of mutant phenotypes confirmed that Sox9 helps regulate the number of Müller glia and photoreceptor cells and helps organize the neural retina. These roles in eye development were previously unrecognized and reinforce the multiple functions that Sox9 plays in vertebrate development."'
GSE13482_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"In each experiment, RNA was isolated from 48h wildtype and sox9a, sox9b double mutant embryos and the gene expression profiles were compared using microarrays.  Three biological replicate experiments were performed, and each biological replicate contained a dyeswap."'
GSE13994_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Characterization of the zebrafish embryonic host response to systemic bacterial infection with Salmonella typhimurium wild type strain (SL1027) and its isogenic LPS O-antigen mutant Ra (SF1592) by means of a time-resolved global expression analysis."'
GSE13994_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"All infection experiments were performed using mixed egg clutches from three tanks of AB strain zebrafish. Embryos were staged at 27 hours post fertilization (hpf) by morphological criteria (Kimmel et al., 1995) and approximately 250 cfu of DsRed expressing S. typhimurium wt and Ra mutant bacteria were injected into the caudal vein close to the urogenital opening. As a control an equal volume of PBS was likewise injected. Injections were controlled using a Leica MZ Fluo 3 stereomicroscope with epifluorescence attachment together with a Femtojet microinjector (Eppendorf) and a micromanipulator with pulled microcapillary pipettes. Pools of 20-40 embryos were collected at 2, 5, 8 and 24 hours post infection (hpi). For the microarray analysis, the whole infection procedure was preformed in triplicate on separate days. The triplicates are marked A,B and C. The order of injecting wt bacteria, Ra bacteria and PBS control was randomized in the different experiments. The general reference sample is a mixture of all RNA samples from this infection study and it is named Common Reference (CR). "'
GSE14399_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Addiction is a pathological dysregulation of brain reward systems, determined by several complex genetic pathways.  The conditioned place preference (CPP) test provides an evaluation of the effects of drugs in animal models, allowing the investigation of substances at a biologically relevant level with respect to reward.  Our lab has previously reported the development of a reliable CPP paradigm for zebrafish.  Here, this CPP test was used to isolate a dominant ENU-induced mutant, no addiction (naddne3256), which fails to respond to amphetamine, and which we used as an entry point towards identifying the behaviorally- relevant transcriptional response to amphetamine. Using microarray technology, we compare the wildtype with the mutant response to the drug, we compare the transcriptomes of the wildtype and mutants without drug and we also compared the transcriptomes of wildtype fish with the drug and wildtype fish without the drug."'
GSE14399_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Through the combination of microarray experiments comparing the adult brain transcriptome of mutant and wild-type siblings under normal conditions, as well as their response to amphetamine, we identified genes that correlate with the mutants’ altered CPP behavior. In addition to pathways classically involved in reward, this gene set shows a striking enrichment in transcription factor-encoding genes classically involved in brain development, which later appear to be re-used within the adult brain.  We selected a subset of them for validation by quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization, revealing that specific brain areas responding to the drug through these transcription factors include domains of ongoing adult neurogenesis.  Finally, network construction revealed functional connections between several of these genes. Together, our results identify a new network of coordinated gene regulation that influences or accompanies amphetamine-triggered CPP behavior and that may underlie the susceptibility to addiction. "'
GSE14782-GPL7735_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Novel high-throughput deep sequencing technology has dramatically changed the way that the functional complexity of transcriptomes can be studied. Here we report on the first use of this technology to gain insight into the wide range of transcriptional alterations that are associated with an infectious disease process. Using Solexa/Illumina’s digital gene expression (DGE) system, a tag-based transcriptome sequencing method, we investigated mycobacterium-induced transcriptome changes in a model vertebrate species, the zebrafish. Our DGE data substantiate recent RNA-seq results from other models indicating a much larger extent of genome transcription than previously thought, and demonstrate that the host response to bacterial infection adds a further degree of complexity to the transcriptome. We obtained a sequencing depth of over 5 million tags per sample with strong correlation between replicates. Tag mapping indicated that mycobacterium-infected adult zebrafish express over 70% of all genes represented in transcript databases. Comparison of our DGE data with a previous multiplatform microarray analysis showed that both types of technologies identified regulation of similar functional groups of genes, more specifically the up-regulation of different classes of immune response genes concomitant with a broad down-regulation of metabolic genes. However, the unbiased nature of DGE analysis provided insights that microarray analysis could not have achieved. As demonstrated here, DGE data are useful for the verification of predicted gene models and allowed us to detect mycobacterium-regulated switching between different transcript isoforms. Moreover, genomic mapping of infection-induced DGE tags revealed novel transcript forms for which any previous EST-based evidence of expression was lacking."'
GSE14782-GPL9319_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Novel high-throughput deep sequencing technology has dramatically changed the way that the functional complexity of transcriptomes can be studied. Here we report on the first use of this technology to gain insight into the wide range of transcriptional alterations that are associated with an infectious disease process. Using Solexa/Illumina’s digital gene expression (DGE) system, a tag-based transcriptome sequencing method, we investigated mycobacterium-induced transcriptome changes in a model vertebrate species, the zebrafish. Our DGE data substantiate recent RNA-seq results from other models indicating a much larger extent of genome transcription than previously thought, and demonstrate that the host response to bacterial infection adds a further degree of complexity to the transcriptome. We obtained a sequencing depth of over 5 million tags per sample with strong correlation between replicates. Tag mapping indicated that mycobacterium-infected adult zebrafish express over 70% of all genes represented in transcript databases. Comparison of our DGE data with a previous multiplatform microarray analysis showed that both types of technologies identified regulation of similar functional groups of genes, more specifically the up-regulation of different classes of immune response genes concomitant with a broad down-regulation of metabolic genes. However, the unbiased nature of DGE analysis provided insights that microarray analysis could not have achieved. As demonstrated here, DGE data are useful for the verification of predicted gene models and allowed us to detect mycobacterium-regulated switching between different transcript isoforms. Moreover, genomic mapping of infection-induced DGE tags revealed novel transcript forms for which any previous EST-based evidence of expression was lacking."'
GSE14866_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We have generated two zebrafish lines carrying inactivating germline mutations in the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene ortholog vhl. Mutant embryos display a general systemic hypoxic response, including the upregulation of hypoxia-induced genes by 1 day post-fertilization and a severe hyperventilation and cardiophysiological response. vhl mutants develop polycythemia with concomitantly increased epo/epor mRNA levels and Epo signaling. In situ hybridizations reveal global up-regulation of both red and white hematopoietic lineages. Hematopoietic tissues are highly proliferative, with enlarged populations of c-myb+ HSCs and circulating erythroid precursors. Chemical activation of Hif-signaling recapitulated aspects of the vhl-/- phenotype. Furthermore, microarray expression analysis confirms the hypoxic response and hematopoietic phenotype observed in vhl-/- embryos. We conclude that Vhl participates in regulating hematopoiesis and erythroid differentiation. Injections with human VHLp30 and R200W mutant mRNA demonstrate functional conservation of VHL between mammals and zebrafish at the amino acid level, indicating that vhl mutants are a powerful new tool to study genotype-phenotype correlations in human disease. Zebrafish mutants are the first congenital embryonic viable systemic vertebrate animal model for VHL, representing the most accurate model for VHL-associated polycythemia to date. They will contribute to our understanding of hypoxic signaling, hematopoiesis and VHL-associated disease progression."'
