GSE10007_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Despite similarities between tumor initiating cells with stem-like properties (TICs) and normal neural stem cells, we hypothesized that there may be differences in their differentiation potentials. We now demonstrate that both bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-mediated and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-mediated Jak/STAT-dependent astroglial differentiation is impaired due to EZH2-dependent epigenetic silencing of BMP receptor 1B (BMPR1B) in a subset of glioblastoma TICs. Forced expression of BMPR1B either by transgene expression or demethylation of the promoter restores their differentiation capabilities and induces loss of their tumorigenicity. We propose that deregulation of the BMP developmental pathway in a subset of glioblastoma TICs contributes to their tumorigenicity both by desensitizing TICs to normal differentiation cues, and by converting otherwise cytostatic signals to pro-proliferative signals."'
GSE10007_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Despite similarities between tumor initiating cells with stem-like properties (TICs) and normal neural stem cells, we hypothesized that there may be differences in their differentiation potentials. We now demonstrate that both bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-mediated and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-mediated Jak/STAT-dependent astroglial differentiation is impaired due to EZH2-dependent epigenetic silencing of BMP receptor 1B (BMPR1B) in a subset of glioblastoma TICs. Forced expression of BMPR1B either by transgene expression or demethylation of the promoter restores their differentiation capabilities and induces loss of their tumorigenicity. We propose that deregulation of the BMP developmental pathway in a subset of glioblastoma TICs contributes to their tumorigenicity both by desensitizing TICs to normal differentiation cues, and by converting otherwise cytostatic signals to pro-proliferative signals."'
GSE10025-GPL6317_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6318_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6319_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6320_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10025-GPL6323_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, where the amplification of oncogenes contributes to tumorigenesis.  Genomic profiling of 128 lung cancer cell lines and tumors revealed frequent focal DNA amplification at cytoband 14q13.3, a locus not amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest region of recurrent amplification spanned the homeobox transcription factor TITF1 (also known as NKX2-1), previously linked to normal lung development and function.  When amplified, TITF1 exhibited increased expression at both the RNA and protein level.  siRNA-mediated knockdown of TITF1 in lung cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, manifested by both decreased cell-cycle progression and increased apoptosis.  Our findings indicate that TITF1 amplification and overexpression contribute to lung cancer cell proliferation rates and survival, and implicate TITF1 as a lineage-specific oncogene in lung cancer."'
GSE10046_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Breast cancer-associated fibroblasts confer AKT1-mediated epigenetic silencing of Cystatin M in epithelial cells."'
GSE10046_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The interplay between histone modifications and promoter hypermethylation provides a causative explanation for epigenetic gene silencing in cancer. Less is known about the upstream initiators that direct this process. Here, we report that the Cystatin M (CST6) tumor suppressor gene is concurrently down-regulated with other loci in breast epithelial cells co-cultured with cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Promoter hypermethylation of CST6 is associated with aberrant AKT1 activation in epithelial cells, as well as the disabled INNP4B regulator resulted from the suppression by CAFs. Repressive chromatin, marked by trimethyl-H3K27 and dimethyl-H3K9, and de novo DNA methylation is established at the promoter. The findings suggest that microenvironmental stimuli are triggers in this epigenetic cascade, leading to the long-term silencing of CST6 in breast tumors. Our present findings implicate a causal mechanism defining how tumor stromal fibroblasts support neoplastic progression by manipulating the epigenome of mammary epithelial cells. The result also highlights the importance of direct cell-cell contract between epithelial cells and the surrounding fibroblasts that confer this epigenetic perturbation. Since this two-way interaction is anticipated, the described co-culture system can be used to determine the effect of epithelial factors on fibroblasts in future studies. "'
GSE10061_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression data of MCF7 cells following short-term E deprivation, ER-alpha siRNA knockdown and oxidant treatments"'
GSE10061_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"ER-alpha siRNA knockdown; and oxidative stress responsive is determined by 8hr exposure to diamide, hydrogen peroxide and menadione"'
GSE10077_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Conclusion: We identified approximate 2.0-Mb deletion on 9q33.3-q34.11 in a female with MR (Patient 1)."'
GSE10086_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiling of V600E BRAF and RTK-activated cells upon MEK inhibition"'
GSE10086_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"This study used microarray expression analysis to identify global changes in transcript alteration in response to MEK inhibition. Genes under ERK control were identified in a panel of V600E BRAF and RTK-activated tumor cells and xenografts, using short-term inhibition of ERK activity using the MEK inhibitor PD0325901 (Pfizer)."'
GSE10087_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"This study used microarray expression analysis to identify global changes in transcript alteration in response to MEK inhibition. Genes under ERK control were identified in a panel of V600E BRAF and RTK-activated tumor cells and xenografts, using short-term inhibition of ERK activity using the MEK inhibitor PD0325901 (Pfizer)."'
GSE10088_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Time course of MEK inhibition"'
GSE10088_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"This study used microarray expression analysis to identify global changes in transcript alteration in response to MEK inhibition. Genes under ERK control were identified in a representative V600E BRAF cell line as a function of time following exposure to a small molecule inhibitor of MEK."'
GSE10096_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Bone is a frequent target of lung cancer metastasis, which is associated with significant morbidity and a dismal prognosis. To identify and functionally characterize genes involved in the mechanisms of osseous metastasis we developed a murine lung cancer model. Comparative transcriptomic analysis identified genes encoding signaling molecules (such as TCF4 and PRKD3), and cell anchorage related proteins (MCAM, and SUSD5), some of which were basally modulated by TGFbeta in tumor cells and in conditions mimicking tumor-stroma interactions. Triple gene combinations induced not only high osteoclastogenic activity but also a marked enhancement of global metalloproteolytic activities in vitro. These effects were strongly associated with robust bone colonization in vivo, whereas this gene subset was ineffective in promoting local tumor growth and cell homing activity to bone. Interestingly, global inhibition of metalloproteolytic activities and simultaneous TGFbeta blockade in vivo led to increased survival and a remarkable attenuation of bone tumor burden and osteolytic metastasis. Thus, this metastatic gene signature mediates bone-matrix degradation by a dual mechanism of induction of TGFbeta-dependent osteoclastogenic bone resorption and enhancement of stroma-dependent metalloproteolytic activities. Our findings suggest the cooperative contribution of host-derived and cell-autonomous effects directed by a small subset of genes in mediating aggressive osseous colonization."'
GSE10123_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The premature aging disease Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is caused by constitutive production of progerin, a mutant form of the nuclear architectural protein lamin A1.  Progerin is also sporadically expressed in wild type cells and has been linked to physiological aging.  HGPS cells exhibit extensive nuclear defects including abnormal chromatin structure and increased DNA damage.  At the organismal level, HGPS affects several tissues particularly of mesenchymal origin.  How the cellular defects of HGPS cells lead to the organismal defects has been unclear.  To begin to unravel how progerin leads to disease phenotypes, we analyzed time-dependent changes in transcriptional profiles in response to progerin expression in a hTERT-immortalized skin fibroblast cell line expressing either GFP-progerin or the  GFP-wt lamin A control"'
GSE10161_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Left ventricular mass (LVM) and cardiac gene expression are complex traits regulated by factors both intrinsic and extrinsic to the heart. To dissect the major determinants of LVM, we combined expression quantitative trait locus1 and quantitative trait transcript (QTT) analyses of the cardiac transcriptome in the rat. Using these methods and in vitro functional assays, we identified osteoglycin (Ogn) as a major candidate regulator of rat LVM, with increased Ogn protein expression associated with elevated LVM. We also applied genome-wide QTT analysis to the human heart and observed that, out of 22,000 transcripts, OGN transcript abundance had the highest correlation with LVM. We further confirmed a role for Ogn in the in vivo regulation of LVM in Ogn knockout mice. Taken together, these data implicate Ogn as a key regulator of LVM in rats, mice and humans, and suggest that Ogn modifies the hypertrophic response to extrinsic factors such as hypertension and aortic stenosis."'
GSE10172_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The spectrum of entities, the therapeutic strategy and the outcome of mature aggressive B-cell lymphomas (maB-NHL) differs between children and adolescents on the one hand and adult patients on the other. Whereas adult maB-NHL have been studied in detail, data on molecular profiling of pediatric maB-NHL are hitherto lacking. Our aim was to characterize pediatric maB-NHL on the molecular level and to evaluate whether a molecular diagnosis of pediatric maB-NHL reveals clinically relevant groups."'
GSE10189-GPL6342_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We report a recurrent microdeletion syndrome causing mental retardation, epilepsy and variable facial and digital dysmorphisms. We describe nine patients, including six probands; two with de novo deletions, two who inherited the deletion from an affected parent, and two with unknown inheritance. The proximal breakpoint of the largest deletion is contiguous with breakpoint 3 (BP3) of the Prader-Willi/Angelman region extending 3.95 Mb distally to BP5. A smaller 1.5 Mb deletion has proximal breakpoint within the larger deletion (BP4) and shares the same distal BP5. This recurrent 1.5 Mb deletion contains six genes, including a candidate gene for epilepsy (CHRNA7) that is likely responsible for the observed seizure phenotype. The BP4-BP5 region undergoes frequent inversion, suggesting a possible link between this inversion polymorphism and recurrent deletion. The frequency of these microdeletions in mental retardation cases is ~0.3% (6/2082 tested), a prevalence comparable to that of the Williams, Angelman, and Prader-Willi syndromes."'
GSE10189-GPL6343_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We report a recurrent microdeletion syndrome causing mental retardation, epilepsy and variable facial and digital dysmorphisms. We describe nine patients, including six probands; two with de novo deletions, two who inherited the deletion from an affected parent, and two with unknown inheritance. The proximal breakpoint of the largest deletion is contiguous with breakpoint 3 (BP3) of the Prader-Willi/Angelman region extending 3.95 Mb distally to BP5. A smaller 1.5 Mb deletion has proximal breakpoint within the larger deletion (BP4) and shares the same distal BP5. This recurrent 1.5 Mb deletion contains six genes, including a candidate gene for epilepsy (CHRNA7) that is likely responsible for the observed seizure phenotype. The BP4-BP5 region undergoes frequent inversion, suggesting a possible link between this inversion polymorphism and recurrent deletion. The frequency of these microdeletions in mental retardation cases is ~0.3% (6/2082 tested), a prevalence comparable to that of the Williams, Angelman, and Prader-Willi syndromes."'
GSE10189-GPL6345_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We report a recurrent microdeletion syndrome causing mental retardation, epilepsy and variable facial and digital dysmorphisms. We describe nine patients, including six probands; two with de novo deletions, two who inherited the deletion from an affected parent, and two with unknown inheritance. The proximal breakpoint of the largest deletion is contiguous with breakpoint 3 (BP3) of the Prader-Willi/Angelman region extending 3.95 Mb distally to BP5. A smaller 1.5 Mb deletion has proximal breakpoint within the larger deletion (BP4) and shares the same distal BP5. This recurrent 1.5 Mb deletion contains six genes, including a candidate gene for epilepsy (CHRNA7) that is likely responsible for the observed seizure phenotype. The BP4-BP5 region undergoes frequent inversion, suggesting a possible link between this inversion polymorphism and recurrent deletion. The frequency of these microdeletions in mental retardation cases is ~0.3% (6/2082 tested), a prevalence comparable to that of the Williams, Angelman, and Prader-Willi syndromes."'
GSE10189-GPL6380_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We report a recurrent microdeletion syndrome causing mental retardation, epilepsy and variable facial and digital dysmorphisms. We describe nine patients, including six probands; two with de novo deletions, two who inherited the deletion from an affected parent, and two with unknown inheritance. The proximal breakpoint of the largest deletion is contiguous with breakpoint 3 (BP3) of the Prader-Willi/Angelman region extending 3.95 Mb distally to BP5. A smaller 1.5 Mb deletion has proximal breakpoint within the larger deletion (BP4) and shares the same distal BP5. This recurrent 1.5 Mb deletion contains six genes, including a candidate gene for epilepsy (CHRNA7) that is likely responsible for the observed seizure phenotype. The BP4-BP5 region undergoes frequent inversion, suggesting a possible link between this inversion polymorphism and recurrent deletion. The frequency of these microdeletions in mental retardation cases is ~0.3% (6/2082 tested), a prevalence comparable to that of the Williams, Angelman, and Prader-Willi syndromes."'
GSE10196_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The Hippo pathway defines a novel signaling cascade regulating cell proliferation and survival in Drosophila, which involves the negative regulation of the transcriptional coactivator Yorkie by the kinases Hippo and Warts. We have recently shown that the human ortholog of Yorkie, YAP, maps to a minimal amplification locus in mouse and human cancers, and that it mediates dramatic transforming activity in MCF10A primary mammary epithelial cells. Here we show that LATS proteins (mammalian orthologs of Warts) interact directly with YAP in mammalian cells and that ectopic expression of LATS1, but not LATS2, effectively suppresses the YAP phenotypes. Furthermore, shRNA-mediated knockdown of LATS1 phenocopies YAP overexpression. Since this effect can be suppressed by simultaneous YAP knockdown, it suggests that YAP is the primary target of LATS1 in mammalian cells. Expression profiling of genes induced by ectopic expression of YAP or by knockdown of LATS1 reveals a subset of potential Hippo pathway targets implicated in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), suggesting that this is a key feature of YAP signaling in mammalian cells."'
GSE10198_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The inhibitory axis of PD-1 expressed on T cells and its ligands produced by APCs mediates T cell exhaustion in chronic viral infection. We asked whether temporality of the infectious process is decisive for regulation through PD-1/PD-Ligand and investigated its impact on chronic bacterial infection. Here we show that M. tuberculosis and its lipid compounds induce expression of PD-Ligand on dendritic cells (DC). Upregulation of PD-Ligand depended on signaling through DC-SIGN upon infection. As a counterpart, expression of the PD-1 receptor was increased on T cells from tuberculosis patients and PPD+ donors compared to healthy normal individuals. Moreover, PD-1 expressing T cells were confined to granulomatous lesions in tuberculous lungs. Finally, functional blocking of PD-Ligand rescued antigen-specific T cell responses of tuberculosis patients. Taken together, we demonstrate that the inhibitory axis of PD-1/PD-Ligand is operative in mycobacterial infection and suggest inhibition of inhibition for rescuing exhausted T cells in tuberculosis."'
GSE10217_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Because of the lack of information, regulation of DNA replication initiation in mammals is still poorly understood. In order to identify general rules, we have mapped replication origins along 1% of the human genome in HeLa cells. We found large gene-poor regions lacking origin and G+C rich regions containing clusters of closely spaced origins. Half of the 283 origins mapped are within or near CpG islands. The connection with gene expression is further reinforced by the observation that most origins overlap with DNAseI hypersensitive sites found at transcriptional regulatory elements. We show, however, that this association is independent of chromatin structure and transcriptional activity. Replication timing analyses coupled to our origin mapping demonstrate that origin dense regions and isolated origins are replicated at every moment in S phase. All together, our data suggest that a relatively strict origin-timing programme regulates DNA replication of the human genome. "'
GSE10221_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Continuous PI 3-kinase signaling is required for cell proliferation and survival, but the gene expression program controlled by PI 3-kinase in proliferating cells has not been elucidated.  We used microarray analyses to characterize the changes in gene expression resulting from inhibition of PI 3-kinase in actively proliferating cells.  Following 2 and 4 hours of PI 3-kinase inhibition, the time around which apoptosis initiated, 32 genes were significantly up-regulated and 53 down-regulated.  After 8 hours of inhibition, the total number of expression changes increased to over 200.  The genes regulated by inhibition of PI 3-kinase in proliferating cells were distinct from genes induced by growth factor stimulation of quiescent cells and included key regulators of cell proliferation and programmed cell death."'
GSE10232_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: shrna knockdown"'
GSE10232_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using shRNA knockdown of cyclin T1, cyclin T1-dependent genes were identified in activated Jurkat cells."'
GSE10233_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: shrna knockdown"'
GSE10233_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using shRNA knockdown of cyclin T1, cyclin T1-dependent genes were identified in PMA-activated MM6 cells."'
GSE10234_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: shrna knockdown"'
GSE10234_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using shRNA knockdown of cyclin T1, cyclin T1-dependent genes were identified in LPS-activated MM6 cells."'
GSE10241_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"siRNA-mediated knockdown of MIF expression in HEK293 cells resulted in  inhibition of cell proliferation and cell cycle progress.   The microarray study of MIF KD cells reveald knockdown of MIF would lead to extensive changes in gene expression profiles which may elucidate the molecular mechanism of MIF siRNA-mediated inhibition of cell cycle and cell proliferation."'
GSE10241_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"siRNA-mediated knockdown of MIF expression in HEK293 cells resulted in  inhibition of cell proliferation and cell cycle progress.   The microarray study of MIF KD cells reveald knockdown of MIF would lead to extensive changes in gene expression profiles which may elucidate the molecular mechanism of MIF siRNA-mediated inhibition of cell cycle and cell proliferation."'
GSE10241_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: The whole-genome expression analysis in MIF knockdown cells and the control cells"'
GSE10266_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Myoepithelioma, mixed tumor and parachordoma are rare soft tissue tumors thought to represent different morphologic variants of the same family of tumors, hereafter referred to as MMP tumors. The genetic basis of these neoplasms is poorly investigated. However, they morphologically resemble mixed tumor of the salivary glands (a.k.a. pleomorphic adenoma). This is the first study characterizing whole genome DNA copy number changes in MMP tumors and the genomic imbalances detected in four MMP tumors and one pleomorphic adenoma were diverse. The only recurrent aberration of known importance for tumor development was homo- and heterozygous deletions of the region in 9p21-22 which harbors the CDKN2A and CDKN2B genes. Defined by the deletion in case 3, the region 1.27-4.82 Mb on chromosome 19 was heterozygously lost in all cases, including the pleomorphic adenoma. A complex pattern of aberrations was seen in the primary tumor of case 2 with amplifications, interrupted by normal copy numbers and losses, of regions on chromosomes 6, 9, and 13."'
GSE10288_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Thirty-five genes showed statistically significant differences (SNR ≥|1.0|,p-value ≤ 0.001) in expression between tumor and non-tumor larynx tissue samples. Functional annotation indicated that these genes are involved in cellular processes relevant to the cancer phenotype, such as apoptosis, cell cycle, DNA repair, proteolysis, protease inhibition, signal transduction, and transcription regulation. Six of the identified transcripts map to intronic regions of protein-coding genes and may comprise unannotated exons or yet uncharacterized long ncRNAs with a regulatory role in the gene expression program of larynx tissue."'
GSE10289_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Effect of SDHB silencing using siRNA methodologies in the tumor phenotype"'
GSE10289_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: siRNA experiment (loss of function)"'
GSE10299_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Protein Kinase C alpha (PKC) is a critical mediator of cell signaling and cancer growth. We show that PKC inhibitors decrease proliferation in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) cells and abrogate growth of SCCHN tumors in mouse xenografts. Analysis of gene expression arrays reveals that PKC regulates cell cycle genes required for DNA synthesis.  In particular, PKC increases cyclin E protein expression, cyclinE/cdk2 complex formation, and transcription of cyclin E and E2F target genes.  Consistent with this mechanism, expression of cyclin E rescues the block in DNA synthesis caused by PKC inhibition.  In SCCHN tissue, PKC and cyclin E expression increase progressively from normal and dysplastic to malignant human head and neck tissue.   Furthermore, PKC  expression correlates with poor prognosis in SCCHN. These results demonstrate that PKC regulates growth by stimulating DNA synthesis through cyclin E and E2F and identify PKC as a therapeutic target that is highly expressed in aggressive SCCHN."'
GSE10301_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Protein Kinase C alpha (PKC) is associated with progression and poor prognosis in head and neck cancer.  Previous studies have demonstrated that PKC sustains the proliferative signal by increasing cyclin E expression, leading to enhanced E2F target gene transcription and DNA synthesis. Here we show that PKC increases DNA synthesis through inhibition of the microRNA, miR-15a, upregulating translation of its target cyclin E. Importantly, gene expression and qRT-PCR analysis of primary squamous cell carcinoma tumors of the head and neck (SCCHN) reveals a significant negative correlation between PKC alpha and miR-15a levels. In contrast to normal cell cycle initiation, PKC decreases microRNA expression, leading first to increased cyclin E protein followed by enhanced transcription of cyclin E and other DNA synthesis mediators.  These results identify a signaling network regulated by PKC whereby constitutive kinase activation switches the system to feed forward, overriding normal regulation of cell cycle progression through a post-transcriptional mechanism involving microRNAs.  This reprogramming of the network is likely a more general phenomenon that can account for the oncogenic potency of established signaling pathways."'
GSE10309_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Background: Claudin-1(CLDN1), one of the key components of tight junction proteins, was found to be down-regulated in human lung adenocarcinomas. This study we investigated the clinical significance of CLDN1 expression in lung adenocarcinoma patients and its role in cancer progression. Method: CLDN1 mRNA expression was measured in tumor specimens from 51 patients with lung adenocarcinoma. CLDN1 protein expression was also examined by immunohistochemistry on specimens from an independent cohort of 67 lung adenocarcinoma patients. CLDN1 and cancer cell migration, invasion, and in vivo metastasis were studied by compared CLDN1 overexpressed, specific shRNA knockdown cells and controls. The Affymetrix oligonucleotide microarray analysis was performed to identify CLDN1 downstream genes. Results: Lung adenocarcinoma patients with low expression of CLDN1 mRNA had shorter overall survival (p = 0.032, log-rank test). This result was further confirmed by immunohistochemistry of CLDN1 protein expression in an independent cohort of lung adenocarcinoma patients (p=0.024). Over-expression of CLDN1 inhibited lung adenocarcinoma cell migration, invasion, and in vivo metastasis. Knockdown of the exogenous CLDN1 expression in CLDN1 transfectants can restore the cancer cell invasive and metastatic ability. By using Affymetrix microarray we have identified panel of genes altered by CLDN1 over-expression. CLDN1 can up-regulate several cancer invasion/metastasis suppressors such as CTGF, THBS1, DLC1, OCLN, ZO-1, and also down-regulate invasion/metastasis enhancers such as SPP1, CUTL1, TGF-α, SLC2A3, PGF, which support that CLDN1 may behave as an invasion and metastasis suppressor. Conclusions: CLDN is a cancer invasion and metastasis suppressor. CLDN1 expression is a useful prognostic predictor and a potential drug treatment target for lung adenocarcinoma patients."'
GSE10372_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In cervical cancer, an important mechanism by which tumour cells escape immune surveillance is loss of HLA class I, enabling tumours to evade recognition and lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Some tumours, however, escape from immune surveillance without accumulating defects in antigen presentation. We hypothesized that tumours with no or partial loss of HLA class I develop alternative mechanisms to prevent immune surveillance. To investigate this hypothesis, genome-wide expression profiling using Illumina arrays was performed on cervical squamous cell carcinomas showing overall loss of HLA class I, partial and normal HLA class I protein expression. Statistical analyses revealed no significant differences in gene expression between tumours with partial (n = 11) and normal HLA class I expression (n = 10). Comparison of tumours with normal/partial HLA class I expression (n = 21) with those with overall loss of HLA class I expression (n = 11) identified 150 differentially expressed genes. Most of these genes were involved in the defense response (n = 27), and, in particular, inflammatory and acute phase responses. Especially SerpinA1 and SerpinA3 were found to be upregulated in HLA positive tumours (3.6 and 8.2 fold, respectively), and this was confirmed by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. In a group of 117 tumours, high SerpinA1 and SerpinA3 expression in association with normal/partial HLA expression correlated significantly with poor overall survival (p = 0.035 and p = 0.05, respectively). This study shows that HLA positive tumours are characterized by a higher expression of genes associated with an inflammatory profile and that expression of the acute phase proteins SerpinA1 and SerpinA3 in HLA positive tumours is associated with worse prognosis."'
GSE10372_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded squamous cervical carcinomas from 68 patients who underwent radical hysterectomy with bilateral lymphadenectomy between 1991 and 2005 at Leiden University Medical Center, were collected. From these 68 patients, 32 snap-frozen tissues were chosen for subsequent gene expression profiling. The percentage of tumour cells was estimated by visual examination of HE-stained frozen tissue sections (5 μm). Only tissue blocks with areas that contained at least 60% viable tumour cells were selected. The 32 selected tumours were divided in three groups: group A, tumours with less than 5% or no HLA class I positive tumour cells (n = 11); group B, tumours with no or partial loss of HLA class I expression and LOH at 6p21.3 (n = 11); and group C, tumours with normal HLA class I expression and no LOH at 6p21.3 (n = 10). Group C included 5 cases with minimal loss, defined as weak expression of HLA-A or HLA-B/C. Statistical analysis revealed no differentially expressed genes between group B and C. Only 15 genes were significantly differentially expressed between group A and B, and 15 genes between group A and C. Since no differences in gene expression were observed between the groups with HLA expression (B and C), we combined the samples of group B and C into one group. Overall, 150 genes were significantly differentially expressed between the HLA negative group (group A, n = 11) and the HLA positive group (group B/C, n = 21) "'
GSE10394_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Exposure to particulate matter (PM) is consistently associated with increased morbidity and mortality attributable in part to respiratory illnesses. The alveolar macrophage (AM) is one of the cell types in the lung constantly exposed to and activated by ambient pollutants. Upon contact with environmental particulate pollutants, AM produces reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant enzymes, but the scope of this oxidative stress response induced by PM remains poorly defined. In this study, we used microarray analysis to determine the gene expression profile in human alveolar macrophages upon exposure to PM and sought to gain more insight into the global response of pro- and anti-oxidant enzymes to PM exposure. Human AM were obtained by bronchoscopy from normal individuals. They were then incubated with Chapel Hill PM2.5 (1 ug/ml) or vehicle for 4 hours (n = 6 independent samples each). mRNAs were extracted, amplified and hybridized to Agilent Human 1A microarray. Differentially expressed genes were identified by Statistical Analysis for Microarrays (SAM) with a FDR of 10% and a P ≤ 0.05. Significant genes were also mapped with Gene Ontology (GO) based on their molecular function. We found 34 and 41 up- and down-regulated genes respectively. Of these, 22 genes (~30%) were involved in metal binding and 14 genes were linked to oxidative stress, including 5 metallothionein-1 (MT1) isoform genes. In lung cells, addition of MT-1F in the medium attenuated PM2.5-induced H2O2 production while knockdown of MT1F gene expression increased H2O2 and IL-6 release induced by PM2.5. Our microarray experiments provided a global view of gene expression after in vitro PM2.5 exposure in human AM. The expression profile was most notable for differential expression of genes related to metal binding and oxidative stress, especially upregulation of MT1 isoform genes. Our findings suggest that metals associated with PM, e.g., zinc, copper, and arsenic, induce MT-1 and may be the primary mediators for PM-induced oxidative stress."'
GSE10431_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Semaphorins are a large family of evolutionary conserved morphogenetic signals originally identified as repelling cues in axonal guidance.  Intriguingly, Semaphorins have recently been implicated to play a role in cancer progression. In particular, Semaphorin 3B (SEMA3B) is considered a putative tumor suppressor, and yet we found that it is expressed at high levels in many invasive and metastatic human cancers. By investigating experimental tumor models, we confirmed that SEMA3B expression inhibited tumor growth, whereas metastatic dissemination was surprisingly increased. Interestingly, we found that SEMA3B induced the production of Interleukin-8 (IL-8) by tumor cells, by activating p38-MAPK pathway, in a Neuropilin-1 dependent manner. Further, by silencing the expression of endogenous SEMA3B in tumor cells, IL-8 transcription was impaired. The release of IL-8, in turn, induced tumor-associated macrophage recruitment and metastatic dissemination to the lung that could be rescued by using neutralizing antibodies against IL-8. In conclusion, we report here that SEMA3B plays unexpected functions in cancer progression, as it fosters a pro-metastatic environment, through elevated IL-8 secretion and recruitment of macrophages, coupled to suppression of tumor growth."'
GSE10444_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In previous studies, human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs) were mainly isolated from adults. In this manuscript, we tried characterization of hDPSCs isolated from an earlier developmental stage to evaluate potential usage of these cells for tissue regenerative therapy. hDPSCs isolated at the crown-completed stage showed a higher proliferation rate than those isolated at the later stage. When the cells from either group were cultured in medium promoting differentiation towards cells of the osteo/odontoblastic lineage, both became alkaline phosphatase positive, produced calcified matrix, and were also capable of forming dentin-like matrix on scaffolds in vivo. However, during long-term passage, these cells underwent a change in morphology and lost their differentiation ability. The results of a DNA array experiment showed that the expression of a number of genes, such as WNT16, was markedly changed with increasing number of passages, which might have caused the loss of their characteristics as hDPSCs."'
GSE10455_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We found frequent epigenetic silencing of microRNA-34b/c in human colorectal cancer. Introduction of miR-34b/c into a colorectal cancer cell line induced significant changes in gene expression profile. We also found overlap between the genes downregulated by miR-34b/c and those downregulated by DAC.  "'
GSE10463_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"VAF347 is a low molecular weight compound which inhibits allergic lung inflammation in vivo. This effect is likely due to a block of dendritic cell (DC) function to generate pro-inflammatory T-helper (Th) cells since VAF347 inhibits IL-6, CD86 and HLA-DR expression by human monocyte derived DC, three relevant molecules for Th-cell generation. Here we demonstrate that VAF347 interacts with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) protein resulting in activation of the AhR signaling pathway. Functional AhR is responsible for the biological activity of VAF347 since, i) other AhR agonists display an identical activity profile in vitro, ii) gene silencing of wild type AhR expression or forced over-expression of a trans-dominant negative AhR ablates VAF347 activity to inhibit cytokine induced IL-6 expression in a human monocytic cell line and iii) AhR deficient mice are resistant to the compound’s ability to block allergic lung inflammation in vivo. These data identify the AhR protein as key molecular target of VAF347 and its essential role for mediating the anti-inflammatory effects of the compound in vitro and in vivo."'
GSE10463_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"VAF347 is a low molecular weight compound which inhibits allergic lung inflammation in vivo. This effect is likely due to a block of dendritic cell (DC) function to generate pro-inflammatory T-helper (Th) cells since VAF347 inhibits IL-6, CD86 and HLA-DR expression by human monocyte derived DC, three relevant molecules for Th-cell generation. Here we demonstrate that VAF347 interacts with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) protein resulting in activation of the AhR signaling pathway. Functional AhR is responsible for the biological activity of VAF347 since, i) other AhR agonists display an identical activity profile in vitro, ii) gene silencing of wild type AhR expression or forced over-expression of a trans-dominant negative AhR ablates VAF347 activity to inhibit cytokine induced IL-6 expression in a human monocytic cell line and iii) AhR deficient mice are resistant to the compound’s ability to block allergic lung inflammation in vivo. These data identify the AhR protein as key molecular target of VAF347 and its essential role for mediating the anti-inflammatory effects of the compound in vitro and in vivo."'
GSE10466_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The estrogen receptor a (ERa) is a ligand-regulated transcription factor. However, a wide variety of other extracellular signals can activate ERa in the absence of estrogen. The impact of these alternate modes of activation on gene expression profiles has not been characterized. We show that estrogen, growth factors and cAMP elicit surprisingly distinct ERa-dependent transcriptional responses in human MCF7 breast cancer cells. In response to growth factors and cAMP, ERa primarily activates and represses genes, respectively. The combined treatments with the antiestrogen tamoxifen and cAMP or growth factors regulate yet other sets of genes. In many cases, tamoxifen is perverted to an agonist, potentially mimicking what is happening in certain tamoxifen-resistant breast tumors and emphasizing the importance of the cellular signaling environment. Using a computational analysis, we predicted that a Hox protein might be involved in mediating such combinatorial effects, and then confirmed it experimentally. Although both tamoxifen and cAMP block the proliferation of MCF7 cells, their combined application stimulates it, and this can be blocked with a dominant-negative Hox mutant. Thus, the activating signal dictates both target gene selection and regulation by ERa, and this has consequences on global gene expression patterns that may be relevant to understanding the progression of ERa-dependent carcinomas."'
GSE10504-GPL3787_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL3930_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL4704_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL5987_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL5989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL6255_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10504-GPL6484_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"We compared 12 different cell populations, including embryonic stem cells before and during differentiation into embryoid bodies as well as various types of normal and tumor cells to determine if pluripotent vs. differentiated cell types use different mechanisms to establish their transcriptome. We first identified genes that were not expressed in the 12 different cell populations and then determined which of them were regulated by histone methylation, DNA methylation, at the step of productive elongation, or by the inability to establish a pre-initiation complex. For these experiments, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies to H3me3K27, H3me3K9, 5-methyl cytosine, and POLR2A. We found that a) the percentage of low expressed genes bound by POLR2A, H3me3K27, H3me3K9, or 5-methyl-cytosine is similar in all 12 cell types, regardless of differentiation or neoplastic state; b) a gene is generally repressed by only one mechanism; and c) distinct classes of genes are repressed by certain mechanisms. We further characterized two transitioning cell populations, 3T3 cells progressing from G0/G1 into S phase and mES cells differentiating into embryoid bodies. We found that the transient regulation through the cell cycle was achieved predominantly by changes in the recruitment of the general transcriptional machinery or by post-POLR2A recruitment mechanisms. In contrast, changes in chromatin silencing were critical for the permanent changes in gene expression in cells undergoing differentiation."'
GSE10506_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We applied whole-genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays to define a comprehensive genetic profile of 23 esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) primary tumor biopsies based on loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and DNA copy number changes. Alterations were common, averaging 97 (range 23-208) per tumor. LOH and gains averaged 33 (range 3-83) and 31 (range 11-73) per tumor, respectively. Copy neutral LOH events averaged 27 (range 7-57) per EAC. We noted 126 homozygous deletions (HDs) across the EAC panel (range 0-11 in individual tumors). Frequent HDs within FHIT (17/23), WWOX (8/23) and DMD (6/23) suggest a role for common fragile sites or genomic instability in EAC etiology. HDs were also noted for known tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) including: CDKN2A, CDKN2B, SMAD4 and GALR1, and identified PDE4D and MGC48628 as potentially novel TSGs. All tumors showed LOH for most of chromosome 17p, suggesting that TSGs other than TP53 maybe targeted. Frequent gains were noted around MYC (13/23), BCL9 (12/23), CTAGE1 (14/23) and ZNF217 (12/23). Thus, we have confirmed previous reports indicating frequent changes to FHIT, CDKN2A, TP53 and MYC in EAC and identified additional genes of interest. Meta analysis of previous genome-wide EAC studies together with the data presented here, highlighted consistent regions of gain on 8q, 18q and 20q, and multiple LOH regions on 4q, 5q, 17p and 18q, suggesting that more than one gene may be targeted on each of these chromosome arms. The focal gains and deletions documented here are a step towards identifying the key genes involved in EAC development."'
GSE10506_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"Here we use Illumina 317K whole-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays to define a comprehensive allelotype of melanoma based on loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and copy number changes in a panel of 23 esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) primary tumor biopsies. Each EAC was paired to normal squamous biopsy from 40328 (GSM266078) to generate the log_R_ratio."'
GSE10524-GPL4012_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Primary diffuse large B cell lymphomas of different immune-privileged sites (IP-DLBCL) share many clinical and biological features, such as a relatively poor prognosis, preferential dissemination to other immune-privileged sites and deletion of the HLA region, which suggests that IP-DLBCL represents a separate entity. To further investigate the nature of IP-DLBCL, we investigated site-specific genomic aberrations in 16 testicular, 9 central nervous system (CNS) and 15 nodal DLBCL using array-CGH. We also determined minimal common regions of gain and loss. Using robust algorithms, the array-CGH data were combined with gene expression data to explore pathways deregulated by chromosomal aberrations."'
GSE10524-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Primary diffuse large B cell lymphomas of different immune-privileged sites (IP-DLBCL) share many clinical and biological features, such as a relatively poor prognosis, preferential dissemination to other immune-privileged sites and deletion of the HLA region, which suggests that IP-DLBCL represents a separate entity. To further investigate the nature of IP-DLBCL, we investigated site-specific genomic aberrations in 16 testicular, 9 central nervous system (CNS) and 15 nodal DLBCL using array-CGH. We also determined minimal common regions of gain and loss. Using robust algorithms, the array-CGH data were combined with gene expression data to explore pathways deregulated by chromosomal aberrations."'
GSE10526_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression underlying infection with an isogenic mutant in SerB, and identified distinct classes of up- and down-regulated genes during this process."'
GSE10526_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Gingival epithelial HIGK cells were infected with either the oral pathogen P. gingivalis (Pg) or an isogenic mutant for SerB in the same parental strain in order to gain a better understanding on the role of SerB. These samples were hybridized to Affymetrix microarrays. SerB was found to be a multifunctional invasin and modulin of P. gingivalis and associated with broadly based regulation of the epithelial cell transcriptome."'
GSE10570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Normal human prostate (NHP) epithelial cells undergo senescence in vitro and in vivo, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we first show that multiple primary strains of NHP cells are all immunophenotyped as CK5+/CK18+CD44+α2β1+p63+hTERT+ progenitor cells, which gradually lose progenitor markers as they lose proliferative capacity. NHP cell senescence involves loss of telomerase expression, upregulation of p16, and activation of p53. Using genetically defined manipulations of these three signaling pathways, we show that p16 is the primary determinant of the NHP cell proliferative capacity and hTERT is required for unlimited proliferative lifespan. Hence, suppression of 16 alone significantly extends NHP cell lifespan but both p16 inhibition and hTERT are required to immortalize NHP cells. Importantly, the immortalized NHP cells are normal progenitors that possess the ability to differentiate into functional prostatic glands containing both basal and luminal cells and, frequently, neuroendocrine cells. The immortalized NHP cells possess gene expression profiles characteristic of proliferating progenitor cells. Our studies shed light on the molecular mechanisms regulating the proliferative lifespan of NHP progenitor cells and provide direct evidence that basal-like progenitor cells can regenerate the entire prostatic glands in vivo. The availability of these cells should facilitate future studies of prostate cancer development."'
GSE10570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Normal human prostate (NHP) epithelial cells undergo senescence in vitro and in vivo, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we first show that multiple primary strains of NHP cells are all immunophenotyped as CK5+/CK18+CD44+α2β1+p63+hTERT+ progenitor cells, which gradually lose progenitor markers as they lose proliferative capacity. NHP cell senescence involves loss of telomerase expression, upregulation of p16, and activation of p53. Using genetically defined manipulations of these three signaling pathways, we show that p16 is the primary determinant of the NHP cell proliferative capacity and hTERT is required for unlimited proliferative lifespan. Hence, suppression of 16 alone significantly extends NHP cell lifespan but both p16 inhibition and hTERT are required to immortalize NHP cells. Importantly, the immortalized NHP cells are normal progenitors that possess the ability to differentiate into functional prostatic glands containing both basal and luminal cells and, frequently, neuroendocrine cells. The immortalized NHP cells possess gene expression profiles characteristic of proliferating progenitor cells. Our studies shed light on the molecular mechanisms regulating the proliferative lifespan of NHP progenitor cells and provide direct evidence that basal-like progenitor cells can regenerate the entire prostatic glands in vivo. The availability of these cells should facilitate future studies of prostate cancer development."'
GSE10584_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"In order to elucidate the molecular mechanism giving rise to the rare In(Lu) type of Lu(a-b-) blood group phenotype we compared the transcriptome of normal and In(Lu) erythroblasts at different stages of maturation. Many erythroid-specific genes had reduced transcript levels suggesting the phenotype resulted from a transcription factor abnormality. A search for mutations in erythroid transcription factors revealed mutations in the promoter or coding sequence of EKLF in 21 of 24 individuals with the In(Lu) phenotype. In all cases the mutant EKLF allele occurred in the presence of a normal EKLF allele. Individuals with the In(Lu) phenotype have no reported pathology indicating that one functional EKLF allele is sufficient to sustain human erythropoiesis. These data provide the first description of inactivating mutations in human EKLF and the first demonstration of a blood group phenotype resulting from mutations in a transcription factor."'
GSE10585-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Previous studies have revealed that UV-stimulation of a variety of cells leads to activation of the EGF receptor, induction of Egr1, growth inhibition and apoptosis.  On the other hand both Egr1 and EGF receptor activation are implicated in promoting the progression of prostate cancer.  We treated M12 tumorigenic prostate epithelial cells which express little Egr1 with UV irradiation which rapidly activated the EGF receptor and elevated Egr1. Treatment with specific EGFR and ERKI/II inhibitors (PD153035 and UO126, respectively) confirmed that the upregulation of Egr1 was downstream of EGFR and ERKI/II Map kinase pathway.  ChIP on chip experiments using Egr1 antibody identified 288 significantly bound promoters upon UV stimulation. Of these target genes, 40% had consensus Egr1 site in their promoters, considerably greater than that expected by chance (p < 0.005).  The array binding results were validated by PCR analysis of 25 genes using DNA from conventional IP experiment. Affymetrix gene expression analysis of UV treated and control cells confirmed that a significant number of these bound promoters showed gene expression changes. Addition of siRNA to Egr1 confirmed that the gene expression changes were dependent upon Egr1 expression.  Addition of EGF led to similar expression changes for nine tested genes.  Proliferation and apoptosis assays confirmed that M12 cells undergo growth arrest and apoptosis following UV irradiation. Moreover, addition of EGF also promoted significant growth inhibition.  These results indicate the M12 cells undergo a EGF receptor dependent apoptosis response upon UV-stimulation and that Egr1 mediates the regulation of numerous genes downstream of the EGF receptor that are associated with this response."'
GSE10585-GPL6441_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Previous studies have revealed that UV-stimulation of a variety of cells leads to activation of the EGF receptor, induction of Egr1, growth inhibition and apoptosis.  On the other hand both Egr1 and EGF receptor activation are implicated in promoting the progression of prostate cancer.  We treated M12 tumorigenic prostate epithelial cells which express little Egr1 with UV irradiation which rapidly activated the EGF receptor and elevated Egr1. Treatment with specific EGFR and ERKI/II inhibitors (PD153035 and UO126, respectively) confirmed that the upregulation of Egr1 was downstream of EGFR and ERKI/II Map kinase pathway.  ChIP on chip experiments using Egr1 antibody identified 288 significantly bound promoters upon UV stimulation. Of these target genes, 40% had consensus Egr1 site in their promoters, considerably greater than that expected by chance (p < 0.005).  The array binding results were validated by PCR analysis of 25 genes using DNA from conventional IP experiment. Affymetrix gene expression analysis of UV treated and control cells confirmed that a significant number of these bound promoters showed gene expression changes. Addition of siRNA to Egr1 confirmed that the gene expression changes were dependent upon Egr1 expression.  Addition of EGF led to similar expression changes for nine tested genes.  Proliferation and apoptosis assays confirmed that M12 cells undergo growth arrest and apoptosis following UV irradiation. Moreover, addition of EGF also promoted significant growth inhibition.  These results indicate the M12 cells undergo a EGF receptor dependent apoptosis response upon UV-stimulation and that Egr1 mediates the regulation of numerous genes downstream of the EGF receptor that are associated with this response."'
GSE10585-GPL6442_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Previous studies have revealed that UV-stimulation of a variety of cells leads to activation of the EGF receptor, induction of Egr1, growth inhibition and apoptosis.  On the other hand both Egr1 and EGF receptor activation are implicated in promoting the progression of prostate cancer.  We treated M12 tumorigenic prostate epithelial cells which express little Egr1 with UV irradiation which rapidly activated the EGF receptor and elevated Egr1. Treatment with specific EGFR and ERKI/II inhibitors (PD153035 and UO126, respectively) confirmed that the upregulation of Egr1 was downstream of EGFR and ERKI/II Map kinase pathway.  ChIP on chip experiments using Egr1 antibody identified 288 significantly bound promoters upon UV stimulation. Of these target genes, 40% had consensus Egr1 site in their promoters, considerably greater than that expected by chance (p < 0.005).  The array binding results were validated by PCR analysis of 25 genes using DNA from conventional IP experiment. Affymetrix gene expression analysis of UV treated and control cells confirmed that a significant number of these bound promoters showed gene expression changes. Addition of siRNA to Egr1 confirmed that the gene expression changes were dependent upon Egr1 expression.  Addition of EGF led to similar expression changes for nine tested genes.  Proliferation and apoptosis assays confirmed that M12 cells undergo growth arrest and apoptosis following UV irradiation. Moreover, addition of EGF also promoted significant growth inhibition.  These results indicate the M12 cells undergo a EGF receptor dependent apoptosis response upon UV-stimulation and that Egr1 mediates the regulation of numerous genes downstream of the EGF receptor that are associated with this response."'
GSE10586_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Naturally occurring FoxP3+CD4+CD25+high regulatory T cells (Tregs) play an important role in dominant tolerance, suppressing auto-reactive CD4+CD25- T cell activity. Although Tregs from T1D subjects are functionally deficient, there is little knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that orchestrate this loss of Treg function. We observed increased apoptosis (by a novel YOPRO-1/7AAD dual staining protocol) and decreased suppression in polyclonal Tregs in the periphery from high at-risk and T1D subjects. We hypothesize that prior to and during the onset of disease, Tregs lack pro-survival signals and are caught up in a relatively deficient cytokine milieu whose effects may be detectable in the periphery."'
GSE10586_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Naturally occurring FoxP3+CD4+CD25+high regulatory T cells (Tregs) play an important role in dominant tolerance, suppressing auto-reactive CD4+CD25- T cell activity. Although Tregs from T1D subjects are functionally deficient, there is little knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that orchestrate this loss of Treg function. We observed increased apoptosis (by a novel YOPRO-1/7AAD dual staining protocol) and decreased suppression in polyclonal Tregs in the periphery from high at-risk and T1D subjects. We hypothesize that prior to and during the onset of disease, Tregs lack pro-survival signals and are caught up in a relatively deficient cytokine milieu whose effects may be detectable in the periphery."'
GSE10591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression in HepG2 cells with overexpression of TMPRSS6 or its mutant version."'
GSE10591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"TMPRSS6 is a type II transmembrane serine protease and is revealed by our work to be part of a low-iron sensing pathway. When animal gets iron deficient, TMPRSS6 is required to shut off hepcidin gene, so as to allow iron to be uptaken from GI tract. The mutant mouse, which was generated by ENU mutagenesis, has developed microcytic anemia. The phenotype is caused by a splicing error in Tmprss6 gene. However, the mechanism of TMPRSS6 effect remains elusive. To gain further insight into the molecular components of the TMPRSS6 signaling pathway, we overexpressed either TMPRSS6 or its mutant version of protein in human liver carcinoma cell line HepG2 cells, and compared the transcription status betweem these two treatments."'
GSE10591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"TMPRSS6 is a type II transmembrane serine protease and is revealed by our work to be part of a low-iron sensing pathway. When animal gets iron deficient, TMPRSS6 is required to shut off hepcidin gene, so as to allow iron to be uptaken from GI tract. The mutant mouse, which was generated by ENU mutagenesis, has developed microcytic anemia. The phenotype is caused by a splicing error in Tmprss6 gene. However, the mechanism of TMPRSS6 effect remains elusive. To gain further insight into the molecular components of the TMPRSS6 signaling pathway, we overexpressed either TMPRSS6 or its mutant version of protein in human liver carcinoma cell line HepG2 cells, and compared the transcription status betweem these two treatments."'
GSE10591_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Triplicate per transfection with wildtype Tmprss6 cDNA, mutant version of Tmprss6 cDNA and empty vector as control, respectively. 36 hours post transfection, cells were harvested and subjected to RNA extraction."'
GSE10601_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The CD40-CD40L dyad seems to play a prominent role fostering the immune-inflammatory response triggered by endothelial cell (EC)-T cell interaction. To comprehensively delineate the involvement of CD40 (TNFRSF5) in EC activation, we combined RNAi-mediated CD40 knock-down with comparative genome-wide transcriptional profiling of EC in response to T cell. We report the initiation of a profound stress response in ECs upon CD40-CD40L engagement through early up-regulation, among others, of the major pro-inflammatory NFkB and MAPK/SAPK pathways and their associated transcription factors. Moreover, we have identified novel genes regulated through the CD40-CD40L interaction, and pathways previously unrecognized to be induced by CD40 signaling in ECs. Thus, we document a strong down-regulation of endothelial APLN by CD40-CD40L interaction, which could lead to vascular tone dysfunction in atherosclerotic lesions. Conversely, CD40-mediated up-regulation of the viral immune surveillance system, notably TLR3, IFIH1, RIG-I, and RNASEL, establishes a reverse link from adaptive to innate immunity in ECs. Moreover, systematic enrichment analysis substantiates endothelial CD40 involvement in the transcriptional regulation of gene networks associated with adhesion and motility, immunity, cell fate control, hemostasis and metabolism. Our study also highlights the potency and specificity of CD40 siRNA mediated inhibition, and the relevance of CD40 signaling pathways for anti-inflammatory therapeutic intervention."'
GSE10611-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6520_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6520_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6520_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10611-GPL6521_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Regions of recurrent genomic amplification and deletion are frequently observed in primary gastric cancers (GC). However, identifying specific oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes within these regions can be challenging, as they often cover tens to hundreds of genes. Here, we combined high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) with gene expression profiling to target genes lying within focal high-level amplifications in GC cell lines, and identified RAB23 as an amplified and overexpressed Chr 6p11p12 gene in Hs746T cells. High RAB23 protein expression was also observed in some lines lacking RAB23 amplification, suggesting additional mechanisms besides gene amplification for up-regulating RAB23. siRNA silencing of RAB23 reduced the invasive potential of both amplified and nonamplified GC cell lines. RAB23 gene amplifications were observed in 13% of primary gastric carcinomas. In two independent patient cohorts, RAB23 transcript and protein expression was significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer (dGC) compared to intestinal-type gastric cancer (iGC), providing further evidence that dGC and iGC likely represent two molecularly distinct tumor types. Our study demonstrates that investigating focal chromosomal amplifications by combining highresolution aCGH with expression profiling is a powerful general strategy for identifying novel cancer genes in recurrent regions of chromosomal aberration."'
GSE10650_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The gain of Protocadherin LKC (PCDH24) expression in colon carcinoma cell line HCT116 has been shown to induce contact inhibition, thereby completely abolishing tumor formation in vivo.  To clarify the molecular mechanism, we performed DNA microarray analysis and compared gene-expression pattern between control and PCDH24-expressing HCT116 cells.  Approximately 2000 genes were apparently changed their expression.  Further proteomics analysis using 2-DE/MS confirmed the dramatic changes and provided additional information.  We were aware that these changes are quite similar to the changes observed in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), most drastic changes in development and cancer metastasis.  We thus further analyzed these changes using specific antibodies, and found distinct difference between these two phenomena.  Among the differences, nuclear translocation of catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1) was inhibited by PCDH24-expression, subsequently some of the downstream nodes were suppressed.  Although contact inhibition and cancer metastasis are completely opposite aspect of the cells, we expect that the identified differences will be key nodes to understand the relationship.  We also expect that the nodes will be a target to modulate tumors arising stem cell transplantation (SCT), as well as a therapeutic target for cancer metastasis."'
GSE10710_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Overexpression of a caspase-resistant form of Bcl-2 (D34A) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC) implanted into immunodeficient mice promotes the maturation of human EC-lined microvessels invested by vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) of mouse origin. In contrast, EC implants  not overexpressing Bcl-2 form only simple, uncoated EC tubes. Here we compare the phenotypes of vessels formed in vivo and the transcriptomes in vitro of EC expressing different forms of Bcl-2. Wild type Bcl-2, like the caspase resistant D34A Bcl-2 mutant, is anti-apoptotic in vitro and promotes VSMC recruitment in vivo, whereas a G145E mutant that has diminished anti-apoptotic activity in vitro does not promote vessel maturation in vivo. The D34A and wild type forms of Bcl-2, but not the G145E mutant form of Bcl-2 significantly regulate RNA transcripts previously associated with EC-VSMC interactions and VSMC biology, including matrix Gla protein, insulin like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-2, matrix metaloproteinase-14 (MMP14), ADAM17 and Stanniocalcin-1. These effects of Bcl-2 on the transcriptome are detected in EC cultured as angiogenic 3-D tubes but are attenuated in EC cultured as 2-D monolayers. Bcl-2-regulated transcription in EC may contribute to vascular maturation, and support design of tissue engineering strategies using EC."'
GSE10734-GPL6547_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Increasing studies suggest that SALL4 may play vital roles in leukemogenesis. We have used chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by microarray hybridization as a screening tool to determine potential genes that may account for the role SALL4 plays in leukemogenesis. Analysis of SALL4 binding sites reveals that genes involved in cell death, cancer, DNA replication/repair, and cell cycle were highly enriched (p<0.05). These genes include 38 important apoptosis-inducing genes (TNF, TP53, PTEN, CARD9, CARD11, CYCS, LTA) and apoptosis-inhibiting genes (Bmi-1, BCL2, XIAP, DAD1, TEGT). Real-time PCR has shown that expression levels of these genes changed significantly after SALL4 knockdown, which ubiquitously led to cell apoptosis. Flow cytometry revealed that reduction of SALL4 expression in NB4 and other leukemia cell lines dramatically increased caspase-3, Annexin V, and DNA fragmentation activity.  Bromodeoxyuridine-incorporation assays showed decreased numbers of S phase cells and increased numbers of G1- and G2- phase cells indicating reduced DNA synthesis, consistent with results from cell proliferation assays.  In addition, NB4 cells that express low levels of SALL4 have significantly decreased tumorigenecity in immunodeficient mice.  Our studies provide a foundation in the development of leukemia stem cell-specific therapy by targeting SALL4."'
GSE10734-GPL6866_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Increasing studies suggest that SALL4 may play vital roles in leukemogenesis. We have used chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by microarray hybridization as a screening tool to determine potential genes that may account for the role SALL4 plays in leukemogenesis. Analysis of SALL4 binding sites reveals that genes involved in cell death, cancer, DNA replication/repair, and cell cycle were highly enriched (p<0.05). These genes include 38 important apoptosis-inducing genes (TNF, TP53, PTEN, CARD9, CARD11, CYCS, LTA) and apoptosis-inhibiting genes (Bmi-1, BCL2, XIAP, DAD1, TEGT). Real-time PCR has shown that expression levels of these genes changed significantly after SALL4 knockdown, which ubiquitously led to cell apoptosis. Flow cytometry revealed that reduction of SALL4 expression in NB4 and other leukemia cell lines dramatically increased caspase-3, Annexin V, and DNA fragmentation activity.  Bromodeoxyuridine-incorporation assays showed decreased numbers of S phase cells and increased numbers of G1- and G2- phase cells indicating reduced DNA synthesis, consistent with results from cell proliferation assays.  In addition, NB4 cells that express low levels of SALL4 have significantly decreased tumorigenecity in immunodeficient mice.  Our studies provide a foundation in the development of leukemia stem cell-specific therapy by targeting SALL4."'
GSE10737_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: cyclin T1 knockdown"'
GSE10737_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using shRNA knockdown of cyclin T1, cyclin T1-dependent genes were identified in non-activated Jurkat cells."'
GSE10738_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: cyclin T1 knockdown"'
GSE10738_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Using shRNA knockdown of cyclin T1, cyclin T1-dependent genes were identified in non-activated MM6 cells."'
GSE10739_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: knockdown"'
GSE10747-GPL1266_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We use Affymetrix 11K XbaI or 250K StyI SNP arrays to analyze the MCF10A series cells and MCFDCIS derived xenografts for copy number changes and LOH (loss of heterozygosity)."'
GSE10747-GPL3720_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We use Affymetrix 11K XbaI or 250K StyI SNP arrays to analyze the MCF10A series cells and MCFDCIS derived xenografts for copy number changes and LOH (loss of heterozygosity)."'
GSE10779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"NatB N-terminal acetyltransferase (hNAT5) inhibition"'
GSE10779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"The N-terminal acetyltransferase NatB, composed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the Nat3p and Mdm20p subunits, is an important factor for yeast growth and resistance to several stress agents. However, the expression and functional role of the mammalian counterpart has not yet been analysed. Here, we report the identification of Nat3p human homologue (hNAT5/hNAT3) and the characterization of its biological function. We found that hNAT5/hNAT3 silencing in HeLa cells results in inhibition of cell proliferation and increased sensitivity to the proapoptotic agent MG132. Moreover, inhibition of hNAT5/hNAT3 expression induces p53 activation and upregulation of the antiproliferative protein p21(WAF1/CIP1). The changes of the cellular transcriptome after hNAT5/hNAT3 knockdown confirmed the involvement of this protein in cell growth and survival processes. Among the genes differentially expressed we observed upregulation of several p53-dependent antiproliferative and proapoptotic genes. In the c-myc transgenic mice which is a model of inducible hepatocarcinoma we found that hNAT5/hNAT3 was upregulated when the tumor was induced. In accordance with this observation we noticed increased hNAT5/hNAT3 protein level in neoplastic versus non-neoplastic tissue in a high proportion of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Consequently, our results suggest that the expression of the protein hNAT5/hNAT3 is required for cellular proliferation and tumor growth."'
GSE10779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"The N-terminal acetyltransferase NatB, composed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the Nat3p and Mdm20p subunits, is an important factor for yeast growth and resistance to several stress agents. However, the expression and functional role of the mammalian counterpart has not yet been analysed. Here, we report the identification of Nat3p human homologue (hNAT5/hNAT3) and the characterization of its biological function. We found that hNAT5/hNAT3 silencing in HeLa cells results in inhibition of cell proliferation and increased sensitivity to the proapoptotic agent MG132. Moreover, inhibition of hNAT5/hNAT3 expression induces p53 activation and upregulation of the antiproliferative protein p21(WAF1/CIP1). The changes of the cellular transcriptome after hNAT5/hNAT3 knockdown confirmed the involvement of this protein in cell growth and survival processes. Among the genes differentially expressed we observed upregulation of several p53-dependent antiproliferative and proapoptotic genes. In the c-myc transgenic mice which is a model of inducible hepatocarcinoma we found that hNAT5/hNAT3 was upregulated when the tumor was induced. In accordance with this observation we noticed increased hNAT5/hNAT3 protein level in neoplastic versus non-neoplastic tissue in a high proportion of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Consequently, our results suggest that the expression of the protein hNAT5/hNAT3 is required for cellular proliferation and tumor growth."'
GSE10779_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"The N-terminal acetyltransferase NatB, composed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the Nat3p and Mdm20p subunits, is an important factor for yeast growth and resistance to several stress agents. However, the expression and functional role of the mammalian counterpart has not yet been analysed. Here, we report the identification of Nat3p human homologue (hNAT5/hNAT3) and the characterization of its biological function. We found that hNAT5/hNAT3 silencing in HeLa cells results in inhibition of cell proliferation and increased sensitivity to the proapoptotic agent MG132. Moreover, inhibition of hNAT5/hNAT3 expression induces p53 activation and upregulation of the antiproliferative protein p21(WAF1/CIP1). The changes of the cellular transcriptome after hNAT5/hNAT3 knockdown confirmed the involvement of this protein in cell growth and survival processes. Among the genes differentially expressed we observed upregulation of several p53-dependent antiproliferative and proapoptotic genes. In the c-myc transgenic mice which is a model of inducible hepatocarcinoma we found that hNAT5/hNAT3 was upregulated when the tumor was induced. In accordance with this observation we noticed increased hNAT5/hNAT3 protein level in neoplastic versus non-neoplastic tissue in a high proportion of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Consequently, our results suggest that the expression of the protein hNAT5/hNAT3 is required for cellular proliferation and tumor growth."'
GSE10804_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Results: Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of samples using all expressed genes yielded discrete groupings of EC lines according to their in vivo source of origin. 190 genes/transcripts were highly expressed only in cavernosal HCCEC. Gene Ontology classification indicated cavernosal enrichment in genes related to cell adhesion, extracellular matrix (ECM), pattern specification and organogenesis. KEGG pathway analysis showed high expression of gene relating to ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesions, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. Real-time PCR confirmed expression differences in cadherins 2 and 11, CLDN11, desmoplakin and versican. CLDN11, a component of tight junctions not previously described in ECs, was highly expressed only in HCCEC and its knockdown by siRNA significantly reduced transendothelial electrical resistance in HCCEC."'
GSE10828_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"To further unravel the potential molecular mechanisms involved in the loss of muscle function during an acute exacerbation, a cross-sectional microarray study was designed to compare the gene expression profile of the vastus lateralis muscle in patients with an acute COPD exacerbation and in stable COPD patients. "'
GSE10832_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Self-renewing tumor initiating cells that are capable of differentiation and responsible for tumor growth have been isolated from cancers and cell lines. If such minor populations are associated with tumor progression, understanding molecular pathways that are required for viability and maintenance of these populations will allow to target these pathways to eradicate tumors that are resistant to existing therapies. In this study we enriched for prostate cancer progenitors (Pr. CP’s) expressing cell surface markers CD44/CD133/alpha 2 beta 1 integrin in non-adherent serum-free growth conditions maintained as spheres. Cells grown in these conditions have increased in vivo clonogenic and in vivo tumorigenic potential. microarray analysis of cells grown in sphere conditions compared with long term monolayer culture conditions revealed preferential activation of PI3K/AKT pathway in prostate cancer progenitors. PI3K p110 alpha and beta protein levels were high in sphere condition cultured cells, and PTEN knockdown lead to an increase in Pr.CP’s, and to increased clonogenic and tumorigenic potential. Inhibition of Akt1 phosphorylation target FoxO3a lead to inhibition of tumorigenic capacity in vivo for prostate cancer cells.  Inhibition of PI3K activity by PI3K inhibitor NVP-BEZ235 lead to a selective inhibition of Pr.CP’s, nuclear localization of FoxO3a and increase in GADD45a in prostate cancer cells. Taken together our data strongly suggest that PTEN and PI3K/Akt pathways are critical for prostate cancer stem-like cell maintenance and targeting the PI3K signaling by selective inhibitors may give an incredible advancement in prostate cancer treatment."'
GSE10832_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Self-renewing tumor initiating cells that are capable of differentiation and responsible for tumor growth have been isolated from cancers and cell lines. If such minor populations are associated with tumor progression, understanding molecular pathways that are required for viability and maintenance of these populations will allow to target these pathways to eradicate tumors that are resistant to existing therapies. In this study we enriched for prostate cancer progenitors (Pr. CP’s) expressing cell surface markers CD44/CD133/alpha 2 beta 1 integrin in non-adherent serum-free growth conditions maintained as spheres. Cells grown in these conditions have increased in vivo clonogenic and in vivo tumorigenic potential. microarray analysis of cells grown in sphere conditions compared with long term monolayer culture conditions revealed preferential activation of PI3K/AKT pathway in prostate cancer progenitors. PI3K p110 alpha and beta protein levels were high in sphere condition cultured cells, and PTEN knockdown lead to an increase in Pr.CP’s, and to increased clonogenic and tumorigenic potential. Inhibition of Akt1 phosphorylation target FoxO3a lead to inhibition of tumorigenic capacity in vivo for prostate cancer cells.  Inhibition of PI3K activity by PI3K inhibitor NVP-BEZ235 lead to a selective inhibition of Pr.CP’s, nuclear localization of FoxO3a and increase in GADD45a in prostate cancer cells. Taken together our data strongly suggest that PTEN and PI3K/Akt pathways are critical for prostate cancer stem-like cell maintenance and targeting the PI3K signaling by selective inhibitors may give an incredible advancement in prostate cancer treatment."'
GSE10847_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The transcription factors Smad2 and Smad3 mediate a large set of genes responses induced by the cytokine TGFβ, but the extent to which their function depends on chromatin remodeling remains to be defined. We observed interactions between these two Smads and BRG1, BAF250b, BAF170 and BAF155, which are core components of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex. Smad2 and Smad3 have a similar affinity for these components in vitro, and their interactions are primarily mediated by BRG1. In vivo, however, BRG1 predominantly interacts with Smad3, and this interaction is enhanced by TGFβ stimulation. Our results suggest that BRG1 is incorporated into transcriptional complexes that are formed by activated Smads in the nucleus, on target promoters. Using BRG1-deficient cell systems(H522 lung cancer cells), we defined the BRG1 dependence of the TGFβ transcriptional program genome-wide. Most TGFβ gene responses in human epithelial cells are dependent on BRG1 function. Remarkably, BRG1 is not required for the TGFβ-mediated induction of SMAD7 and SNON, which encode key mediators of negative feedback in this pathway. Our results provide a genome-wide scope of the participation of BRG1 in TGFβ action and suggest a widespread yet differential involvement of BRG1 SWI/SNF remodeler in the transcriptional response of many genes to this cytokine. "'
GSE10856_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Decoy receptor 3 (DcR3) is a member of the TNF receptor superfamily and is up-regulated in tumors that originate from a diversity of lineages. DcR3 is capable of promoting angiogenesis, inducing dendritic cell apoptosis, and modulating macrophage differentiation. Since tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are the major infiltrating leukocytes in most malignant tumors, we used microarray technology to investigate whether DcR3 contributes to the development of TAMs. Among the DcR3-modulated genes expressed by TAMs, those that encode proteins involved in MHC class II (MHC-II)-dependent antigen presentation were down-regulated substantially, together with the master regulator of MHC-II expression (the class II transactivator, CIITA). The ERK- and JNK-induced deacetylation of histones associated with the CIITA promoters was responsible for DcR3-mediated down-regulation of MHC-II expression. Furthermore, the expression level of DcR3 in cancer cells correlated inversely with HLA-DR levels on TAMs and with the overall survival time of pancreatic cancer patients. The role of DcR3 in the development of TAMs was further confirmed using transgenic mice over-expressing DcR3. This elucidates the molecular mechanism of impaired MHC-II-mediated antigen presentation by TAMs, and raises the possibility that subversion of TAM-induced immunosuppression via inhibition of DcR3 expression might represent a target for the design of new therapeutics."'
GSE10884-GPL1390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancers can be classified using whole genome expression into distinct subtypes that show differences in patient prognosis.  One of these groups, the basal-like carcinomas, are poorly differentiated, highly metastatic, and genomically unstable.  These tumors also contain specific genetic alterations with one example being frequent p53 mutations. The loss of the tumor suppressor gene encoded by the retinoblastoma (RB1) locus is a well-characterized occurrence in many tumor types, however, its role in breast cancer is less clear with many reports demonstrating a Loss of Heterozygosity (LOH) that does not correlate with loss of RB1 protein expression.  Here we report that LOH of the RB1 locus was observed at a high frequency in basal-like and luminal B tumors.  These tumors also concurrently have low expression of RB1 mRNA as assessed by DNA microarray.  As in previous reports, we also did not see a significant correlation between RB1 LOH and protein expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).  p16INK4a, however, was highly expressed both by microarray and IHC, in basal-like tumors only presumably due to a previously reported feedback loop caused by RB1 loss.  These results suggest that the functional loss of RB1 is a common event in the progression of basal-like and luminal B breast tumors, which may play a key role in dictating therapeutic responses"'
GSE10884-GPL5325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancers can be classified using whole genome expression into distinct subtypes that show differences in patient prognosis.  One of these groups, the basal-like carcinomas, are poorly differentiated, highly metastatic, and genomically unstable.  These tumors also contain specific genetic alterations with one example being frequent p53 mutations. The loss of the tumor suppressor gene encoded by the retinoblastoma (RB1) locus is a well-characterized occurrence in many tumor types, however, its role in breast cancer is less clear with many reports demonstrating a Loss of Heterozygosity (LOH) that does not correlate with loss of RB1 protein expression.  Here we report that LOH of the RB1 locus was observed at a high frequency in basal-like and luminal B tumors.  These tumors also concurrently have low expression of RB1 mRNA as assessed by DNA microarray.  As in previous reports, we also did not see a significant correlation between RB1 LOH and protein expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).  p16INK4a, however, was highly expressed both by microarray and IHC, in basal-like tumors only presumably due to a previously reported feedback loop caused by RB1 loss.  These results suggest that the functional loss of RB1 is a common event in the progression of basal-like and luminal B breast tumors, which may play a key role in dictating therapeutic responses"'
GSE10884-GPL885_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancers can be classified using whole genome expression into distinct subtypes that show differences in patient prognosis.  One of these groups, the basal-like carcinomas, are poorly differentiated, highly metastatic, and genomically unstable.  These tumors also contain specific genetic alterations with one example being frequent p53 mutations. The loss of the tumor suppressor gene encoded by the retinoblastoma (RB1) locus is a well-characterized occurrence in many tumor types, however, its role in breast cancer is less clear with many reports demonstrating a Loss of Heterozygosity (LOH) that does not correlate with loss of RB1 protein expression.  Here we report that LOH of the RB1 locus was observed at a high frequency in basal-like and luminal B tumors.  These tumors also concurrently have low expression of RB1 mRNA as assessed by DNA microarray.  As in previous reports, we also did not see a significant correlation between RB1 LOH and protein expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).  p16INK4a, however, was highly expressed both by microarray and IHC, in basal-like tumors only presumably due to a previously reported feedback loop caused by RB1 loss.  These results suggest that the functional loss of RB1 is a common event in the progression of basal-like and luminal B breast tumors, which may play a key role in dictating therapeutic responses"'
GSE10884-GPL887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancers can be classified using whole genome expression into distinct subtypes that show differences in patient prognosis.  One of these groups, the basal-like carcinomas, are poorly differentiated, highly metastatic, and genomically unstable.  These tumors also contain specific genetic alterations with one example being frequent p53 mutations. The loss of the tumor suppressor gene encoded by the retinoblastoma (RB1) locus is a well-characterized occurrence in many tumor types, however, its role in breast cancer is less clear with many reports demonstrating a Loss of Heterozygosity (LOH) that does not correlate with loss of RB1 protein expression.  Here we report that LOH of the RB1 locus was observed at a high frequency in basal-like and luminal B tumors.  These tumors also concurrently have low expression of RB1 mRNA as assessed by DNA microarray.  As in previous reports, we also did not see a significant correlation between RB1 LOH and protein expression as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).  p16INK4a, however, was highly expressed both by microarray and IHC, in basal-like tumors only presumably due to a previously reported feedback loop caused by RB1 loss.  These results suggest that the functional loss of RB1 is a common event in the progression of basal-like and luminal B breast tumors, which may play a key role in dictating therapeutic responses"'
GSE10893-GPL1390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL1390_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL1708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL1708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL5325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL5325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL6607_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL6607_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL885_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL885_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10893-GPL887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease with known tumor subtypes. In order to gain insight into the underlying etiologies of these disease subtypes, we first classified tumors according to gene expression intrinsic subtype, and second, identified subtype associated tumor genomic DNA copy number alterations (CNA) using a novel method called SWITCHdna.  Most tumor subtypes showed specific CNA with Basal-like breast cancers being the most distinct and associated with loss of RB1, BRCA1, 5q11-35, and showed the greatest overall genomic instability.  The common Basal-like CNA of loss of a segment of chromosome 5q11-35 contained at least three genes important for DNA repair (RAD17, RAD50, and RAP80), which were predominantly lost in pairs or all three simultaneously. Loss of two or three of these genes was associated with significantly increased genomic instability as defined by the absolute number of CNA, and poor patient survival . RNAi knockdown of RAD17, or RAD17 and RAD50, in an immortalized HMEC line caused increased sensitivity to a PARP inhibitor, or carboplatin.  These data suggest mechanisms for genomic instability in Basal-like breast cancers and a biological rationale for the use of DNA repair inhibitor related therapeutics in this aggressive breast cancer subtype."'
GSE10950_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Genetic and epigenetic defects in Wnt/ß-catenin signaling play important roles in colorectal cancer progression. Here we identify DACT3, a member of the DACT (Dpr/Frodo) gene family, as a negative regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling that is transcriptionally repressed in colorectal cancer. Unlike other Wnt signaling inhibitors that are silenced by DNA methylation, DACT3 repression is associated with bivalent histone modifications. Remarkably, DACT3 expression can be robustly de-repressed by a pharmacological combination that simultaneously targets both histone methylation and deacetylation, leading to strong inhibition of Dishevelled (Dvl)-mediated Wnt/ß-catenin signaling and massive apoptosis of colorectal cancer cells. Our study identifies DACT3 as an important regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer and suggests a potential strategy for therapeutic control of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer."'
GSE10952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Genetic and epigenetic defects in Wnt/ß-catenin signaling play important roles in colorectal cancer progression. Here we identify DACT3, a member of the DACT (Dpr/Frodo) gene family, as a negative regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling that is transcriptionally repressed in colorectal cancer. Unlike other Wnt signaling inhibitors that are silenced by DNA methylation, DACT3 repression is associated with bivalent histone modifications. Remarkably, DACT3 expression can be robustly de-repressed by a pharmacological combination that simultaneously targets both histone methylation and deacetylation, leading to strong inhibition of Dishevelled (Dvl)-mediated Wnt/ß-catenin signaling and massive apoptosis of colorectal cancer cells. Our study identifies DACT3 as an important regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer and suggests a potential strategy for therapeutic control of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer."'
GSE10957_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Interactions between the gene products encoded by the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes play critical roles in normal eukaryotic cellular function. Here, we characterized the metabolic and transcriptional properties of A549 lung cancer cells and their isogenic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-depleted rho zero counterparts grown in cell culture and as tumor xenografts in immune-deficient mice. A manuscript summarizing our conclusions is under review."'
GSE10960_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) guide catalytic sequence-specific cleavage of fully or nearly fully complementary target mRNAs or control translation and/or stability of many mRNAs that share 6-8 nucleotides (nt) of complementarity to the siRNA and miRNA 5' end. siRNA- and miRNA-containing ribonucleoprotein silencing complexes are assembled from double-stranded 21- to 23-nt RNase III processing intermediates that carry 5' phosphates and 2-nt overhangs with free 3' hydroxyl groups. Despite the structural symmetry of a duplex siRNA, the nucleotide sequence asymmetry can generate a bias for preferred loading of one of the two duplex-forming strands into the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). Here we show that the 5'-phosphorylation status of the siRNA strands also acts as an important determinant for strand selection. 5'-O-methylated siRNA duplexes refractory to 5' phosphorylation were examined for their biases in siRNA strand selection. Asymmetric, single methylation of siRNA duplexes reduced the occupancy of the silencing complex by the methylated strand with concomitant elimination of its off-targeting signature and enhanced off-targeting signature of the phosphorylated strand. Methylation of both siRNA strands reduced but did not completely abolish RNA silencing, without affecting strand selection relative to that of the unmodified siRNA. We conclude that asymmetric 5' modification of siRNA duplexes can be useful for controlling targeting specificity."'
GSE10972_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Genetic and epigenetic defects in Wnt/?-catenin signaling play important roles in colorectal cancer progression. Here we identify DACT3, a member of the DACT (Dpr/Frodo) gene family, as a negative regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling that is transcriptionally repressed in colorectal cancer. Unlike other Wnt signaling inhibitors that are silenced by DNA methylation, DACT3 repression is associated with bivalent histone modifications. Remarkably, DACT3 expression can be robustly de-repressed by a pharmacological combination that simultaneously targets both histone methylation and deacetylation, leading to strong inhibition of Dishevelled (Dvl)-mediated Wnt/?-catenin signaling and massive apoptosis of colorectal cancer cells. Our study identifies DACT3 as an important regulator of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer and suggests a potential strategy for therapeutic control of Wnt/ß-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer."'
GSE10993_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Ewing sarcoma (EWS) is an aggressive bone tumor of uncertain cellular origin. CD99 is a membrane protein that is expressed in most cases of EWS, although its function in the disease is unknown. Here we have shown that endogenous CD99 expression modulates EWS tumor differentiation and malignancy. We determined that knocking down CD99 expression in human EWS cell lines reduced their ability to form tumors and bone metastases when xenografted into immunodeficient mice and diminished their tumorigenic characteristics in vitro. Further, reduction of CD99 expression resulted in neurite outgrowth and increased expression of β-III tubulin and markers of neural differentiation. Analysis of a panel of human EWS cells revealed an inverse correlation between CD99 and H-neurofilament expression, as well as an inverse correlation between neural differentiation and oncogenic transformation. As knockdown of CD99 also led to an increase in phosphorylation of ERK1/2, we suggest that the CD99-mediated prevention of neural differentiation of EWS occurs through MAPK pathway modulation. Together, these data indicate a new role for CD99 in preventing neural differentiation of EWS cells and suggest that blockade of CD99 or its downstream molecular pathway may be a new therapeutic approach for EWS."'
GSE11011_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Translation initiation factors have complex functions in cells which are not yet understood. We show that depletion of initiation factor eIF4GI only modestly reduces overall protein synthesis in cells, but phenocopies nutrient-starvation or inhibition of protein kinase mTOR, a key nutrient sensor. eIF4GI depletion impairs cell proliferation, bioenergetics and mitochondrial activity, thereby promoting autophagy. Translation of mRNAs involved in cell growth, proliferation and bioenergetics were selectively inhibited by reduction of eIF4GI, whereas mRNAs encoding proliferation inhibitors and catabolic pathway factors were increased. Depletion or over-expression of other eIF4G family members did not recapitulate these results. The majority of mRNAs that were translationally impaired with eIF4GI depletion were excluded from polyribosomes due to  the presence of multiple upstream open reading frames and low mRNA abundance. These results suggest that the high levels of eIF4GI observed in many breast cancers might act to specifically increase proliferation, prevent autophagy and release tumor cells from control by nutrient sensing."'
GSE11036_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11036_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11038-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11038-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11038-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11038-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Distinct genetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having an adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is associated predominantly with 17p loss resulting from complex chromosomal rearrangements. We performed genome-wide DNA (SNPs arrays), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and gene expression profiling (GEP) analyses to investigate the significance of 17p loss in a panel of 71 genetically well-characterized B-CLLs in Binet stage A, 18 of which carried a TP53 monoallelic deletion. Combined SNP arrays and FISH approaches showed 17p loss in all of the TP53-deleted cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. Mutations in exons 5 to 9 of TP53 were found in 9/12 deleted samples. GEP of 60 B-CLLs, including 7 patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were down-regulated in 17p- tumors. The majority (30/35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p. Overall, these data indicate that, beside TP53 deletion, the concomitant loss of 17p arm may contribute to the strong negative prognostic impact known to be associated with this lesion in B-CLL."'
GSE11060_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Using a combination of microarray analysis, real-time RT-PCR and Northern blots, we found that mature erythrocytes, while lacking ribosomal and large-sized RNAs, contain abundant and diverse microRNAs.  MicroRNA expression of erythrocytes was different from that of reticulocytes and leukocytes, and contributed the majority of the microRNA expression in whole blood. When we used microRNA microarrays to analyze erythrocytes from HbAA and HbSS individuals, we noted a dramatic difference in their microRNA expression pattern. We found that miR-320 played an important role for the down-regulation of its target gene, CD71 during reticulocyte terminal differentiation. Further investigation revealed that poor expression of miR-320 in HbSS cells was associated with their defective downregulation CD71 during terminal differentiation."'
GSE11093_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Little is known about the physiological role of the EBER1 and 2 nuclear RNAs during Epstein Barr viral infection. The cellular transcription response to EBER2 expression using the wild-type and an internal deletion mutant was determined. Significant changes in gene expression patterns were observed. A functional meta-analysis of the regulated genes points to inhibition of stress and immune responses, as well as activation of cellular growth and cytoskeletal reorganization as potential targets for EBER2 RNA. Different functions can be assigned to different parts of the RNA. These results provide new avenues to the understanding of EBER2 and EBV biology."'
GSE11093_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Little is known about the physiological role of the EBER1 and 2 nuclear RNAs during Epstein Barr viral infection. The cellular transcription response to EBER2 expression using the wild-type and an internal deletion mutant was determined. Significant changes in gene expression patterns were observed. A functional meta-analysis of the regulated genes points to inhibition of stress and immune responses, as well as activation of cellular growth and cytoskeletal reorganization as potential targets for EBER2 RNA. Different functions can be assigned to different parts of the RNA. These results provide new avenues to the understanding of EBER2 and EBV biology."'
GSE11093_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Little is known about the physiological role of the EBER1 and 2 nuclear RNAs during Epstein Barr viral infection. The cellular transcription response to EBER2 expression using the wild-type and an internal deletion mutant was determined. Significant changes in gene expression patterns were observed. A functional meta-analysis of the regulated genes points to inhibition of stress and immune responses, as well as activation of cellular growth and cytoskeletal reorganization as potential targets for EBER2 RNA. Different functions can be assigned to different parts of the RNA. These results provide new avenues to the understanding of EBER2 and EBV biology."'
GSE11132_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"ETS gene fusions have been characterized in a majority of prostate cancers, however key molecular alterations in ETS negative cancers are unclear.  Here we used an outlier meta-analysis (meta-COPA) to identify SPINK1 outlier-expression exclusively in a subset of ETS rearrangement negative cancers (~10% of total cases).  We validated the mutual exclusivity of SPINK1 expression and ETS fusion status, demonstrated that SPINK1 outlier-expression can be detected non-invasively in urine and observed that SPINK1 outlier-expression is an independent predictor of biochemical recurrence after resection. We identified the aggressive 22RV1 cell line as a SPINK1 outlier-expression model, and demonstrate that SPINK1 knockdown in 22RV1 attenuates invasion, suggesting a functional role in ETS rearrangement negative prostate cancers."'
GSE11152-GPL6735_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Pancreatobiliary cancers have among the highest mortality rates of any cancer type.  Discovering the full spectrum of molecular genetic alterations may suggest new avenues for therapy.  To catalogue genomic alterations, we carried out array-based genomic profiling of 31 exocrine pancreatic cancers and 6 distal bile duct cancers, expanded as xenografts to enrich the tumor cell fraction.  We identified numerous focal DNA amplifications and deletions, including in 19% of pancreatobiliary cases gain at cytoband 18q11.2, a locus uncommonly amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest shared amplification at 18q11.2 included GATA6, a transcriptional regulator previously linked to normal pancreas development.  When amplified, GATA6 was overexpressed at both the mRNA and protein level, and strong immunostaining was observed in 25 of 54 (46%) primary pancreatic cancers compared to 0 of 33 normal pancreas specimens surveyed.  GATA6 expression in xenografts was associated with specific microarray gene-expression patterns, enriched for GATA binding sites and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation activity.  siRNA mediated knockdown of GATA6 in pancreatic cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, and colony formation.  Our findings indicate that GATA6 amplification and overexpression contribute to the oncogenic phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells, and implicate GATA6 as a lineage-specific oncogene in pancreatobiliary cancer, with implications for novel treatment strategies."'
GSE11152-GPL6736_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Pancreatobiliary cancers have among the highest mortality rates of any cancer type.  Discovering the full spectrum of molecular genetic alterations may suggest new avenues for therapy.  To catalogue genomic alterations, we carried out array-based genomic profiling of 31 exocrine pancreatic cancers and 6 distal bile duct cancers, expanded as xenografts to enrich the tumor cell fraction.  We identified numerous focal DNA amplifications and deletions, including in 19% of pancreatobiliary cases gain at cytoband 18q11.2, a locus uncommonly amplified in other tumor types.  The smallest shared amplification at 18q11.2 included GATA6, a transcriptional regulator previously linked to normal pancreas development.  When amplified, GATA6 was overexpressed at both the mRNA and protein level, and strong immunostaining was observed in 25 of 54 (46%) primary pancreatic cancers compared to 0 of 33 normal pancreas specimens surveyed.  GATA6 expression in xenografts was associated with specific microarray gene-expression patterns, enriched for GATA binding sites and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation activity.  siRNA mediated knockdown of GATA6 in pancreatic cancer cell lines with amplification led to reduced cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, and colony formation.  Our findings indicate that GATA6 amplification and overexpression contribute to the oncogenic phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells, and implicate GATA6 as a lineage-specific oncogene in pancreatobiliary cancer, with implications for novel treatment strategies."'
GSE11162_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signalling controls a number of cerebral functions and dysfunctions including synaptogenesis, amyloid-β accumulation, apoptosis and excitotoxicity. Using cultured cortical neurons prepared from either wild type or transgenic mice over-expressing a TGF-β responsive luciferase reporter gene (SBE-Luc), we demonstrated a progressive loss of TGF-β signalling during neuronal maturation and survival. Moreover, we showed that neurons exhibit increasing amounts of the serine protease HtrA1 (high temperature responsive antigen 1) and corresponding cleavage products during both in vitro neuronal maturation and brain development. In parallel of its ability to promote degradation of TGF-β1, we demonstrated that blockage of the proteolytic activity of HtrA1 leads to a restoration of TGF-β signalling, subsequent overexpression of the serpin type -1 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and neuronal death. Altogether, we propose that the balance between HtrA1 and TGF-β could be one of the critical events controlling both neuronal maturation and developmental survival."'
GSE11173-GPL4124_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Epigenetic gene regulation is a key determinant of heritable gene expression patterns and is critical for normal cellular function.  Dysregulation of epigenetic transcriptional control is a fundamental feature of cancer, particularly manifesting as increased promoter DNA methylation with associated aberrant gene silencing which plays a significant role in tumor progression.  We now globally map key chromatin parameters for genes with promoter CpG island DNA hypermethylation in colon cancer cells by combining microarray gene expression analyses with ChIP on chip technology.  We first show that the silent state of such genes universally correlates with a broad distribution of a low, but distinct, level of the PcG mediated histone modification, methylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 (H3K27me) and a very low level of the active mark, H3K4me2.  This chromatin pattern, and particularly H3K4me2 levels, crisply separates DNA hypermethylated genes from those where histone deacetylation is responsible for transcriptional silencing.  Moreover, the chromatin pattern can markedly enhance identification of truly silent and DNA hypermethylated genes.  We additionally find that when DNA hypermethylated genes are de-methylated and re-expressed, they adopt a “bivalent” chromatin pattern which is associated with the poised gene expression state of a large group of ES cell genes, and is characterized by an increase in levels of both the H3K27me3 and H3K4me2 marks.  Our data have great relevance for the increasing interest in re-expression of DNA hypermethylated genes for the treatment of cancer."'
GSE11173-GPL4125_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Epigenetic gene regulation is a key determinant of heritable gene expression patterns and is critical for normal cellular function.  Dysregulation of epigenetic transcriptional control is a fundamental feature of cancer, particularly manifesting as increased promoter DNA methylation with associated aberrant gene silencing which plays a significant role in tumor progression.  We now globally map key chromatin parameters for genes with promoter CpG island DNA hypermethylation in colon cancer cells by combining microarray gene expression analyses with ChIP on chip technology.  We first show that the silent state of such genes universally correlates with a broad distribution of a low, but distinct, level of the PcG mediated histone modification, methylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 (H3K27me) and a very low level of the active mark, H3K4me2.  This chromatin pattern, and particularly H3K4me2 levels, crisply separates DNA hypermethylated genes from those where histone deacetylation is responsible for transcriptional silencing.  Moreover, the chromatin pattern can markedly enhance identification of truly silent and DNA hypermethylated genes.  We additionally find that when DNA hypermethylated genes are de-methylated and re-expressed, they adopt a “bivalent” chromatin pattern which is associated with the poised gene expression state of a large group of ES cell genes, and is characterized by an increase in levels of both the H3K27me3 and H3K4me2 marks.  Our data have great relevance for the increasing interest in re-expression of DNA hypermethylated genes for the treatment of cancer."'
GSE11173-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Epigenetic gene regulation is a key determinant of heritable gene expression patterns and is critical for normal cellular function.  Dysregulation of epigenetic transcriptional control is a fundamental feature of cancer, particularly manifesting as increased promoter DNA methylation with associated aberrant gene silencing which plays a significant role in tumor progression.  We now globally map key chromatin parameters for genes with promoter CpG island DNA hypermethylation in colon cancer cells by combining microarray gene expression analyses with ChIP on chip technology.  We first show that the silent state of such genes universally correlates with a broad distribution of a low, but distinct, level of the PcG mediated histone modification, methylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 (H3K27me) and a very low level of the active mark, H3K4me2.  This chromatin pattern, and particularly H3K4me2 levels, crisply separates DNA hypermethylated genes from those where histone deacetylation is responsible for transcriptional silencing.  Moreover, the chromatin pattern can markedly enhance identification of truly silent and DNA hypermethylated genes.  We additionally find that when DNA hypermethylated genes are de-methylated and re-expressed, they adopt a “bivalent” chromatin pattern which is associated with the poised gene expression state of a large group of ES cell genes, and is characterized by an increase in levels of both the H3K27me3 and H3K4me2 marks.  Our data have great relevance for the increasing interest in re-expression of DNA hypermethylated genes for the treatment of cancer."'
GSE11205_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Glucocorticoids (GCs) bind to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) to regulate diverse biological functions from cell growth to apoptosis. Drugs that mimic their action are the most commonly prescribed therapeutic agents in the world and are currently used for the treatment of many diseases including asthma, autoimmune disorders, and some cancers. However, the mechanisms by which one hormone, via one receptor, modulates such diverse biological functions remain unclear. We hypothesized that epigenetic alteration to the GR may contribute to its signaling diversity, and here we demonstrate that Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3-beta phosphorylates GR on Serine 404 in a glucocorticoid-dependent manner. U-2 OS cells expressing a mutant GR that is incapable of Ser404 phosphorylation have enhanced global transcriptional responses, stronger NF-kappaB transrepression, and enhanced cell death in response to dexamethasone. Conversely, presence of Ser404 phosphorylation on the GR inhibits glucocorticoid-dependent NF-kappaB transrepression and cell death of these osteoblasts. Collectively, our results describe a novel convergence point of the GSK-3-beta pathway with the GR resulting in altered glucocorticoid regulated signaling. Our results also provide a mechanism by which the phosphorylation status of Ser404 in GR can dictate how cells will ultimately respond to GCs."'
GSE11233_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Aberrant hypermethylation of CpG dinucleotides located in CpG islands within the promoters of key cancer genes is an epigenetic abnormality associated with heritable transcriptional gene silencing and inactivation in cancer. The genes involved include important tumor suppressors affecting key pathways for tumor initiation and progression. These methylated sequences can serve as potentially valuable markers for cancer risk assessment, diagnosis, prognosis, and prediction of therapeutic responses. In addition, many key cancer genes may be targeted by both epigenetic and genetic alterations and, thus epigenetic analysis can help focus the search for mutations, and vice versa. Studies of major cancer types suggest that any individual patient’s tumor may harbor at least 300 or more DNA hypermethylated genes.  In TCGA, a pilot project is underway to begin defining these genes for GBM via genomic approaches. "'
GSE11233_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Aberrant hypermethylation of CpG dinucleotides located in CpG islands within the promoters of key cancer genes is an epigenetic abnormality associated with heritable transcriptional gene silencing and inactivation in cancer. The genes involved include important tumor suppressors affecting key pathways for tumor initiation and progression. These methylated sequences can serve as potentially valuable markers for cancer risk assessment, diagnosis, prognosis, and prediction of therapeutic responses. In addition, many key cancer genes may be targeted by both epigenetic and genetic alterations and, thus epigenetic analysis can help focus the search for mutations, and vice versa. Studies of major cancer types suggest that any individual patient’s tumor may harbor at least 300 or more DNA hypermethylated genes.  In TCGA, a pilot project is underway to begin defining these genes for GBM via genomic approaches. "'
GSE11237_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Pharmacological inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is being explored as a chemotherapeutic option because COX-2 protein expression is often elevated in many cancers.  Cancer cells treated with COX-2 inhibitors, such as the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib, show growth inhibition and the induction of apoptosis, through alterations in inflammatory processes, angiogenesis, cell adhesion and transforming growth factor-β signaling.  This study was conducted to determine if the same processes are relevant to celecoxib’s effects on human colorectal adenocarcinomas treated in vivo.  A cohort of 23 patients with primary colorectal adenocarcinomas was randomized to receive a 7-day course of celecoxib (400 mg b.i.d.) or no drug prior to surgical resection.  Gene expression profiling was performed on resected adenocarcinomas from patients with and without celecoxib pre-treatment.  Using fold change (>1.5) and p-value (<0.05) cut-offs, 190 genes were differentially expressed between adenocarcinomas from patients receiving celecoxib and those that did not.  Of the differentially expressed genes, multiple genes involved in cellular lipid and glutathione metabolism showed decreased expression levels in celecoxib pre-treated samples; changes associated with diminished cellular proliferation.  Other observed gene expression changes consistent with reduced proliferation include: altered expression of genes involved in cell adhesion (including collagen, laminin, von Willebrand factor and tenascin C), increased expression of inflammatory modulators (including inerleukin-6, S100 calcium binding protein A8, and several chemokines) and decreased expression of the pro-angiogenic gene, angiogenin.  Celecoxib pre-treatment for 7 days in vivo is associated with alterations in colorectal adenocarcinoma gene expression which are suggestive of diminished cellular proliferation."'
GSE11238_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Vaccinia E3L mutant virus infected HeLa cell lines (langl-affy-human-215499)"'
GSE11242_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"2-Deoxyglucose induced transcription in control and MondoA knockdown cells"'
GSE11242_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"To determine the contibution of the transcription factor MondoA to 2-deoxyglucose-induced transcription expression analysis was carried out in control and MondoA knockdown cells"'
GSE11242_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"HA1ER cells, Control (NS) or MondoA knockdown (M2), were starved for glucose overnight and then treated with 2-deoxyglucose for 3 hours"'
GSE11279_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Ezrin knockdown in SW480"'
GSE11279_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Analysis of SW480 cells following knockdown of Ezrin using RNAi.  Ezrin is a protein that regulate the organization of cytoskeleton.  Ezrin KD SW480 was used to study the role of ezrin in colon cancer."'
GSE11285_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"GSK3 inhibition Induces Glioma Cell Death through c-MYC, NF-kB and Glucose Regulation"'
GSE11285_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We identified GSK3 as a regulator of GBM cell survival using microarray analysis, small molecule and genetic inhibitors of GSK3 activity.  Various molecular and genetic approaches were then employed to dissect out the molecular mechanisms responsible for GSK3 inhibition-induced cytotoxicity."'
GSE11301_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"PUF family proteins are among the best characterized regulatory RNA-binding proteins in non-mammalian species, but relatively little is known about mRNA targets or functions of mammalian PUF proteins.  In this study, we used ribonomic analysis to identify and analyze mRNAs associated with ribonucleoproteins containing an endogenous human PUF protein, Pum1.  Pum1 associated mRNAs were highly enriched for genes encoding proteins that function in transcriptional regulation and cell cycle/proliferation, results consistent with the post-transcriptional RNA regulon model and the proposed ancestral functions of PUF proteins in stem cell biology.  Analysis of 3’UTR sequences of Pum1 associated mRNAs revealed a core Pum1 consensus sequence, UGUAHAUA.  Pum1 knockdown demonstrated that Pum1 enhances decay of associated mRNAs, and re-localization of Pum1 to stress granules suggested that Pum1 functions in repression of translation.  This study is the first in vivo genome-wide mRNA target identification of a mammalian PUF protein and provides direct evidence that human PUF proteins regulate stability of associated mRNAs.  Comparison of Pum1 associated mRNAs to mRNA targets of PUF proteins from S. cerevisiae and Drosophila demonstrates how a well conserved RNA-binding domain and cognate binding sequence have been evolutionarily rewired to regulate the collective expression of different sets of functionally related genes."'
GSE11348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"RATIONALE: Human rhinovirus infections cause colds and trigger exacerbations of lower airway diseases. OBJECTIVES: To define changes in gene expression profiles during in vivo rhinovirus infections. METHODS: Nasal epithelial scrapings were obtained before and during experimental rhinovirus infection, and gene expression was evaluated by microarray. Naturally acquired rhinovirus infections, cultured human epithelial cells, and short interfering RNA knockdown were used to further evaluate the role of viperin in rhinovirus infections. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Symptom scores and viral titers were measured in subjects inoculated with rhinovirus or sham control, and changes in gene expression were assessed 8 and 48 hours after inoculation. Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for viperin and rhinoviruses was used in naturally acquired infections, and viperin mRNA levels and viral titers were measured in cultured cells. Rhinovirus-induced changes in gene expression were not observed 8 hours after viral infection, but 11,887 gene transcripts were significantly altered in scrapings obtained 2 days postinoculation. Major groups of up-regulated genes included chemokines, signaling molecules, interferon-responsive genes, and antivirals. Viperin expression was further examined and also was increased in naturally acquired rhinovirus infections, as well as in cultured human epithelial cells infected with intact, but not replication-deficient, rhinovirus. Knockdown of viperin with short interfering RNA increased rhinovirus replication in infected epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Rhinovirus infection significantly alters the expression of many genes associated with the immune response, including chemokines and antivirals. The data obtained provide insights into the host response to rhinovirus infection and identify potential novel targets for further evaluation."'
GSE11348_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"RATIONALE: Human rhinovirus infections cause colds and trigger exacerbations of lower airway diseases. OBJECTIVES: To define changes in gene expression profiles during in vivo rhinovirus infections. METHODS: Nasal epithelial scrapings were obtained before and during experimental rhinovirus infection, and gene expression was evaluated by microarray. Naturally acquired rhinovirus infections, cultured human epithelial cells, and short interfering RNA knockdown were used to further evaluate the role of viperin in rhinovirus infections. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Symptom scores and viral titers were measured in subjects inoculated with rhinovirus or sham control, and changes in gene expression were assessed 8 and 48 hours after inoculation. Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for viperin and rhinoviruses was used in naturally acquired infections, and viperin mRNA levels and viral titers were measured in cultured cells. Rhinovirus-induced changes in gene expression were not observed 8 hours after viral infection, but 11,887 gene transcripts were significantly altered in scrapings obtained 2 days postinoculation. Major groups of up-regulated genes included chemokines, signaling molecules, interferon-responsive genes, and antivirals. Viperin expression was further examined and also was increased in naturally acquired rhinovirus infections, as well as in cultured human epithelial cells infected with intact, but not replication-deficient, rhinovirus. Knockdown of viperin with short interfering RNA increased rhinovirus replication in infected epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Rhinovirus infection significantly alters the expression of many genes associated with the immune response, including chemokines and antivirals. The data obtained provide insights into the host response to rhinovirus infection and identify potential novel targets for further evaluation."'
GSE11373_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profile analysis for the Fascin knockdown esophageal squamous carcinoma cells"'
GSE11373_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"We used cDNA microarrays to identify genes that were differentially expressed upon fascin knockdown. For this purpose, we selected PSF8 (Fascin siRNA-depleted cell) and PSC(blank vector control cell ), two ESCC cell lines recently established in our laboratory. Total RNA from PSF8 cells and PSC cells was prepared for use with Affymetrix U133 cDNA microarrays."'
GSE11414_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Gain or loss of genes and deregulation of gene expression can result in cumulative and progressive disruptions of normal cellular functions."'
GSE11422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Genes differentially expressed upon CHD8 knockdown"'
GSE11422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"CHD8 is a putative chromatin remodeling ATPase of the SNF2 family. We found that depletion of CHD8 impairs cell proliferation. In order to identify CHD8 target genes, we performed a transcriptomic analysis of CHD8-depleted cells. CHD8 was knockdown by doxycyclin-dependent expression of a shRNA that target the CHD8 mRNA."'
GSE11422_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: CHD8 knockdown analysis"'
GSE11436_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"The Mre11 complex (Mre11, Rad50, and Nbs1) and Chk2 have been implicated in the DNA damage response, an inducible process required for the suppression of malignancy.  The Mre11 complex is predominantly required for repair and checkpoint activation in S phase, while Chk2 governs apoptosis.  We examined the relationship between the Mre11 complex and Chk2 in the DNA damage response via the establishment of Nbs1∆B/∆B Chk2-/- and Mre11ATLD1/ATLD1 Chk2-/- mice.  Chk2 deficiency did not modify the checkpoint defects or chromosomal instability of Mre11 complex mutants; however, the double mutant mice exhibited synergistic defects in DNA damage-induced p53 regulation and apoptosis.  Nbs1∆B/∆B Chk2-/- and Mre11ATLD1/ATLD1 Chk2-/- mice were also predisposed to tumors.  In contrast, DNA-PKcs deficient mice, in which G1-specific chromosome breaks are present, did not exhibit synergy with Chk2-/- mutants.  These data suggest that Chk2 suppresses the oncogenic potential of DNA damage arising during S and G2 phases of the cell cycle."'
GSE11436_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The Mre11 complex (Mre11, Rad50, and Nbs1) and Chk2 have been implicated in the DNA damage response, an inducible process required for the suppression of malignancy.  The Mre11 complex is predominantly required for repair and checkpoint activation in S phase, while Chk2 governs apoptosis.  We examined the relationship between the Mre11 complex and Chk2 in the DNA damage response via the establishment of Nbs1∆B/∆B Chk2-/- and Mre11ATLD1/ATLD1 Chk2-/- mice.  Chk2 deficiency did not modify the checkpoint defects or chromosomal instability of Mre11 complex mutants; however, the double mutant mice exhibited synergistic defects in DNA damage-induced p53 regulation and apoptosis.  Nbs1∆B/∆B Chk2-/- and Mre11ATLD1/ATLD1 Chk2-/- mice were also predisposed to tumors.  In contrast, DNA-PKcs deficient mice, in which G1-specific chromosome breaks are present, did not exhibit synergy with Chk2-/- mutants.  These data suggest that Chk2 suppresses the oncogenic potential of DNA damage arising during S and G2 phases of the cell cycle."'
GSE11436_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: Global gene expression analysis,  response to radiation,  Nbs1∆B/∆B Chk2-/- and Mre11ATLD1/ATLD1 Chk2-/- mutant mice"'
GSE11450-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The first week of human pre-embryo development is characterized by the induction of totipotency and then pluripotency. The understanding of this delicate process will have far reaching implication for in vitro fertilization and regenerative medicine. Human mature MII oocytes and embryonic stem (ES) cells are both able to achieve the feat of cell reprogramming towards pluripotency, either by somatic cell nuclear transfer or by cell fusion, respectively. Comparison of the transcriptome of these two cell types may highlight genes that are involved in pluripotency initiation. Therefore, based on a microarray compendium of 205 samples, produced in our laboratory or from public databases, we compared the gene expression profile of mature MII oocytes and human ES cells (hESC) to that of somatic tissues. We identified a common oocyte/hESC gene expression profile, which included a strong cell cycle signature, a large chromatin remodelling network (TOP2A, DNMT3B, JARID2, SMARCA5, CBX1, CBX5) and 18 different zinc finger transcription factors, including ZNF84. Strikingly, a large set of genes was found to code for proteins involved in the ubiquitination and proteasome pathway. Upon hESC differentiation into embryoid bodies, the transcription of this pathway declines. In vitro, we observed a selective sensitivity of hESC to the inhibition of the activity of the proteasome, resulting in loss of pluripotency and cell growth at doses without any detectable effects on differentiated cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the proteasome pathway may play a role in initiating and maintaining pluripotency during early development and in hESC."'
GSE11450-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The first week of human pre-embryo development is characterized by the induction of totipotency and then pluripotency. The understanding of this delicate process will have far reaching implication for in vitro fertilization and regenerative medicine. Human mature MII oocytes and embryonic stem (ES) cells are both able to achieve the feat of cell reprogramming towards pluripotency, either by somatic cell nuclear transfer or by cell fusion, respectively. Comparison of the transcriptome of these two cell types may highlight genes that are involved in pluripotency initiation. Therefore, based on a microarray compendium of 205 samples, produced in our laboratory or from public databases, we compared the gene expression profile of mature MII oocytes and human ES cells (hESC) to that of somatic tissues. We identified a common oocyte/hESC gene expression profile, which included a strong cell cycle signature, a large chromatin remodelling network (TOP2A, DNMT3B, JARID2, SMARCA5, CBX1, CBX5) and 18 different zinc finger transcription factors, including ZNF84. Strikingly, a large set of genes was found to code for proteins involved in the ubiquitination and proteasome pathway. Upon hESC differentiation into embryoid bodies, the transcription of this pathway declines. In vitro, we observed a selective sensitivity of hESC to the inhibition of the activity of the proteasome, resulting in loss of pluripotency and cell growth at doses without any detectable effects on differentiated cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the proteasome pathway may play a role in initiating and maintaining pluripotency during early development and in hESC."'
GSE11450-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The first week of human pre-embryo development is characterized by the induction of totipotency and then pluripotency. The understanding of this delicate process will have far reaching implication for in vitro fertilization and regenerative medicine. Human mature MII oocytes and embryonic stem (ES) cells are both able to achieve the feat of cell reprogramming towards pluripotency, either by somatic cell nuclear transfer or by cell fusion, respectively. Comparison of the transcriptome of these two cell types may highlight genes that are involved in pluripotency initiation. Therefore, based on a microarray compendium of 205 samples, produced in our laboratory or from public databases, we compared the gene expression profile of mature MII oocytes and human ES cells (hESC) to that of somatic tissues. We identified a common oocyte/hESC gene expression profile, which included a strong cell cycle signature, a large chromatin remodelling network (TOP2A, DNMT3B, JARID2, SMARCA5, CBX1, CBX5) and 18 different zinc finger transcription factors, including ZNF84. Strikingly, a large set of genes was found to code for proteins involved in the ubiquitination and proteasome pathway. Upon hESC differentiation into embryoid bodies, the transcription of this pathway declines. In vitro, we observed a selective sensitivity of hESC to the inhibition of the activity of the proteasome, resulting in loss of pluripotency and cell growth at doses without any detectable effects on differentiated cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the proteasome pathway may play a role in initiating and maintaining pluripotency during early development and in hESC."'
GSE11450-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The first week of human pre-embryo development is characterized by the induction of totipotency and then pluripotency. The understanding of this delicate process will have far reaching implication for in vitro fertilization and regenerative medicine. Human mature MII oocytes and embryonic stem (ES) cells are both able to achieve the feat of cell reprogramming towards pluripotency, either by somatic cell nuclear transfer or by cell fusion, respectively. Comparison of the transcriptome of these two cell types may highlight genes that are involved in pluripotency initiation. Therefore, based on a microarray compendium of 205 samples, produced in our laboratory or from public databases, we compared the gene expression profile of mature MII oocytes and human ES cells (hESC) to that of somatic tissues. We identified a common oocyte/hESC gene expression profile, which included a strong cell cycle signature, a large chromatin remodelling network (TOP2A, DNMT3B, JARID2, SMARCA5, CBX1, CBX5) and 18 different zinc finger transcription factors, including ZNF84. Strikingly, a large set of genes was found to code for proteins involved in the ubiquitination and proteasome pathway. Upon hESC differentiation into embryoid bodies, the transcription of this pathway declines. In vitro, we observed a selective sensitivity of hESC to the inhibition of the activity of the proteasome, resulting in loss of pluripotency and cell growth at doses without any detectable effects on differentiated cells. Taken together, these results suggest that the proteasome pathway may play a role in initiating and maintaining pluripotency during early development and in hESC."'
GSE11482_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Rhabdoid tumors (RT) are aggressive tumors characterized by genetic loss of SMARCB1 (SNF5, INI-1), a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex.  No effective treatment is currently available.  This study seeks to shed light on the SMARCB1-mediated pathogenesis of RT and to discover potential therapeutic targets.  Global gene expression of 10 RT was compared with 12 cellular mesoblastic nephromas, 16 clear cell sarcomas of the kidney, and 15 Wilms tumors.  114 top genes were differentially expressed in RT (p<0.001, fold change >2 or <0.5).  Among these were down-regulation of SMARCB1 and genes previously associated with SMARCB1 (ATP1B1, PTN, DOCK4, NQO1, PLOD1, PTP4A2, PTPRK).  28/114 top differentially expressed genes were involved with neural or neural crest development and were all sharply down-regulated.  This was confirmed by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Neural and neural crest stem cell marker proteins SOX10, ID3, CD133 and Musashi were negative by immunohistochemistry, whereas Nestin was positive. Decreased expression of CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN1C, CDKN2A, and CCND1 was identified, while MYC-C was upregulated.  GSEA of independent gene sets associated with bivalent histone modification and polycomb group targets in embryonic stem cells demonstrated significant negative enrichment in RT.   Several differentially expressed genes were associated with tumor suppression, invasion and metastasis, including SPP1 (osteopontin), COL18A1 (endostatin), PTPRK, and DOCK4.   We conclude that RTs arise within early progenitor cells during a critical developmental window in which loss of SMARCB1 directly results in repression of neural development, loss of cyclin dependent kinase inhibition, and trithorax/polycomb dysregulation. "'
GSE11482_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Rhabdoid tumors (RT) are aggressive tumors characterized by genetic loss of SMARCB1 (SNF5, INI-1), a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex.  No effective treatment is currently available.  This study seeks to shed light on the SMARCB1-mediated pathogenesis of RT and to discover potential therapeutic targets.  Global gene expression of 10 RT was compared with 12 cellular mesoblastic nephromas, 16 clear cell sarcomas of the kidney, and 15 Wilms tumors.  114 top genes were differentially expressed in RT (p<0.001, fold change >2 or <0.5).  Among these were down-regulation of SMARCB1 and genes previously associated with SMARCB1 (ATP1B1, PTN, DOCK4, NQO1, PLOD1, PTP4A2, PTPRK).  28/114 top differentially expressed genes were involved with neural or neural crest development and were all sharply down-regulated.  This was confirmed by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Neural and neural crest stem cell marker proteins SOX10, ID3, CD133 and Musashi were negative by immunohistochemistry, whereas Nestin was positive. Decreased expression of CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN1C, CDKN2A, and CCND1 was identified, while MYC-C was upregulated.  GSEA of independent gene sets associated with bivalent histone modification and polycomb group targets in embryonic stem cells demonstrated significant negative enrichment in RT.   Several differentially expressed genes were associated with tumor suppression, invasion and metastasis, including SPP1 (osteopontin), COL18A1 (endostatin), PTPRK, and DOCK4.   We conclude that RTs arise within early progenitor cells during a critical developmental window in which loss of SMARCB1 directly results in repression of neural development, loss of cyclin dependent kinase inhibition, and trithorax/polycomb dysregulation. "'
GSE11559_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The FHIT gene, at 3p14.2, encompasses the common fragile site FRA3B and is frequently inactivated in primary tumors and cell lines of lung, head and neck, stomach, esophagus, cervix and breast cancer. In particular, loss of the FHIT protein is one of the most frequent alteration in lung tumors and pre-invasive lung lesions, suggesting a role for this gene in the early stages of lung carcinogenesis. Adenoviral-mediated restoration of FHIT expression in FHIT-negative cell lines results in cell cycle alteration, induction of apoptosis (through activation of the cytoplasmic apoptotic pathway) and regression of the tumorigenic phenotype. Taken together these observations support the hypothesis of a role for FHIT in human carcinogenesis, but little is known about its mechanism of action. Identification of transcriptional targets of FHIT is therefore critical to understand the pathways by which FHIT promotes growth arrest and apoptosis."'
GSE11575_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"PGE2 is a major mediator of inflammation and is present at high concentrations in the synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.  PGE2, acting through the EP4 receptor, has both pro- and anti-inflammatory roles in vivo. To shed light on this dual role of PGE2, we investigated its effects in whole blood and in primary human fibroblast-like synoviocytes. Gene expression analysis in human leukocytes, confirmed at the protein level, revealed an EP4-dependent inhibition of the expression of genes involved in the IFN-gamma activation pathway, including IFN-gamma itself. This effect of the PGE2/EP4 axis on IFN-gamma is a reciprocal phenomenon since IFN-gamma blocks PGE2 release and blocks EP receptor expression. The mutually antagonistic relationship between IFN-gamma and PGE2 extends to downstream cytokine- and chemokine-release; PGE2 counters the effects of IFN-gamma, on the release of IP-10, IL-8, TNFalpha and IL-1beta. To gain further insight into IFN-gamma-mediated cellular events in rheumatoid arthritis, we assessed the effects of IFN-gamma on gene expression in fibroblast-like synoviocytes. We observed an IFN-gamma-dependent up-regulation of macrophage-attracting chemokines, and down-regulation of metalloprotease expression. These results suggest the existence of a mutually antagonistic relationship between PGE2 and IFN-gamma which may represent a fundamental mechanism of immune control in diseases such as RA."'
GSE11578_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_summary	"RITA is a low-molecular-weight compound which addresses the second group of tumours retaining functionally reactive wt p53. It was found in a screening of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) library of low-molecular-weight compounds based on its ability to selectively kill wtp53-containing cells. RITA binds directly to p53 and diplaces its main destructor Mdm2, as well as inducing a shift in the conformation of p53. This is in contrast to the wtp53-reactivating compound Nutlin3a, which targets Mdm2, inhibiting its ability to degrade p53. Using microarray technology we have explored the effect of RITA on the transcriptome of isogenic cell-lines with knocked-out (KO) or intact (WT) TP53. While the effects on KO cells are below detection limit, the effects on WT cells are profound. The known p53 targets induced are predominately apoptotic, in contrast to the genes affected by Nutlin3a, which are exclusively growth-arrest genes."'
GSE11578_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_overall_design	"HCT116 parental and HCT116 p53-null (HCT116 TP53-/-) cells were subjected to treatment with 1uM RITA for 12h, or left untreated. The experiment was done in three independent biological replicates."'
GSE11618_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Stable XIAP knockdown in HCT116 colon cancer cells"'
GSE11618_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) is the most potent endogenous caspase inhibitor preventing cell death via caspase-9, -7 and -3 (initiator and executioner caspase pathways). Using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) against XIAP, stably expressed in a parent HCT116 human colon cancer cell line, a series of clones have been developed. XIAP mRNA levels were established by RT-PCR, the four X (XIAP knockdown) clonal cell lines show 82-93% reduction in XIAP mRNA when compared to the four L (luciferase control) cell lines. Immunoblot analysis showed a 67-89% reduction in XIAP protein in X cell lines compared to L. RNA was analysed by microarray and XIAP knockdown was confirmed in 7 probe sets, there was no significant compensation of other IAP family members. XIAP knockdown induced a 2-fold increase in the basal level of apoptosis without modification of caspase 3/7 activity. Finally, XIAP knockdown sensitises cells to radiotherapy by 20%, to recombinant TRAIL by a 3-fold factor, and to paclitaxel and docetaxel by >2 fold factor. Future work should focus on targeted agents such as rhTRAIL in combination with strategies to down regulate XIAP. XIAP antisense is now in clinical development in oncology."'
GSE11627_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Functional and regulatory network analyses based on knowledge database revealed a master network of PIP co-modulated genes, including many interconnecting oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes, half of which were detected as differentially expressed through high-precision measurements. The networks identified appear associated with an inhibition of proliferation coupled with an increase of apoptosis and an enhancement of cell adhesion in breast cancer cell lines. Finally, the STAT5 motif was identified in promoters of an important part of genes belonging to the PIP networks. "'
GSE11663-GPL3718_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Embryonic chromosome aberrations cause birth defects and reduce human fertility. However, neither their nature nor incidence are known. Here, we develop a method to assess genome-wide copy number variation and loss of heterozygosity in single cells and apply it to screen blastomeres from in vitro fertilized preimplantation embryos. Complex patterns of chromosome-arm imbalances or segmental deletions, duplications or amplifications that were reciprocal in sister blastomeres were detected in a large proportion of the embryos. In addition, aneuploidies and uniparental isodisomies were frequently observed. Since these embryos were derived from young fertile couples, the data indicate that chromosomal instability is common to human embryogenesis."'
GSE11663-GPL6928_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Embryonic chromosome aberrations cause birth defects and reduce human fertility. However, neither their nature nor incidence are known. Here, we develop a method to assess genome-wide copy number variation and loss of heterozygosity in single cells and apply it to screen blastomeres from in vitro fertilized preimplantation embryos. Complex patterns of chromosome-arm imbalances or segmental deletions, duplications or amplifications that were reciprocal in sister blastomeres were detected in a large proportion of the embryos. In addition, aneuploidies and uniparental isodisomies were frequently observed. Since these embryos were derived from young fertile couples, the data indicate that chromosomal instability is common to human embryogenesis."'
GSE11663-GPL6929_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Embryonic chromosome aberrations cause birth defects and reduce human fertility. However, neither their nature nor incidence are known. Here, we develop a method to assess genome-wide copy number variation and loss of heterozygosity in single cells and apply it to screen blastomeres from in vitro fertilized preimplantation embryos. Complex patterns of chromosome-arm imbalances or segmental deletions, duplications or amplifications that were reciprocal in sister blastomeres were detected in a large proportion of the embryos. In addition, aneuploidies and uniparental isodisomies were frequently observed. Since these embryos were derived from young fertile couples, the data indicate that chromosomal instability is common to human embryogenesis."'
GSE11670_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Iron plays a central role in the regulation of many cellular functions. Dysregulation of its metabolism leads an iron overload situation and iron depletion leads to an inhibition of cell proliferation. Recent reports demonstrated that ICL670 (Novartis) acts as a potent NF-kappa-B inhibitor and improves hematological data in a subset of MDS patients (Cilloni et al, Haematologica, s1: 238, 2007). However, the precise mechanism of anti-cancer effect of ICL670 is still uncertain. "'
GSE11729_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Controlled activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is systematically guaranteed at the molecular level, however aberrant activation of EGFR is frequently found in cancer. Transcription induced by EGFR activation often involves coordinated expression of genes that positively and negatively regulate the original signaling pathway, therefore alterations in EGFR kinase activity may reflect changes in gene expression associated with the pathway. In this study, we investigated transcriptional changes following EGF stimulation with or without the EGFR kinase inhibitor Iressa in H1299 human non-small-cell lung cancer cells (parental H1299, H1299 cells which overexpress wild-type: EGFR-WT and mutant EGFR: L858R). Our results clearly showed differences in transcriptional activity in the absence or presence of EGFR kinase activity, and genes sharing the same molecular functions showed distinct expression dynamics. The results showed particular enrichment of EGFR/ErbB signaling-related genes in a differentially expressed gene set, and significant protein expression of MIG6/RALT(ERRFI1), an EGFR negative regulator, was confirmed in L858R. High MIG6 protein expression was correlated with basal EGFR phosphorylation and inversely correlated with EGF-induced ERK phosphorylation levels. Investigation of NCI-60 cell lines showed that ERRFI1 expression was correlated with EGFR expression regardless of tissue type. These results suggest that cells accumulate MIG6 as an inherent negative regulator to suppress excess EGFR activity when basal EGFR kinase activity is considerably high. Taken together, an EGFR mutation can cause transcriptional changes to accommodate the activation potency of the original signaling pathway at the cellular level."'
GSE11778-GPL4372_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Substantial data indicate that microRNA-21 (miR-21) is significantly elevated in glioblastoma (GBM) and in many other tumors of various origins. This miRNA has been implicated in various aspects of carcinogenesis, including cellular proliferation, apoptosis and migration. We demonstrate that miR-21 regulates multiple genes associated with glioma cell apoptosis, migration, and invasiveness, including RECK and TIMP3, suppressors of malignancy and inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Specific inhibition of miR-21 with antisense olgonucleotides leads to elevated levels of RECK and TIMP3 and therefore reduces MMP activities in vitro and in a human model of glioma in nude mice. Moreover, down-regulation of miR-21 in glioma cells leads to decrease of their migratory and invasion abilities. Our data suggest that miR-21 contributes to the glioma malignancy by down-regulation of MMP inhibitors that leads to activation of MMPs thus promoting invasiveness of cancer cells. Our results also indicate that inhibition of a single oncomir like miR-21 with specific antisense molecules can provide a novel therapeutic approach for “physiological” modulation of multiple proteins whose expression is de-regulated in cancer. "'
GSE11778-GPL6793_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Substantial data indicate that microRNA-21 (miR-21) is significantly elevated in glioblastoma (GBM) and in many other tumors of various origins. This miRNA has been implicated in various aspects of carcinogenesis, including cellular proliferation, apoptosis and migration. We demonstrate that miR-21 regulates multiple genes associated with glioma cell apoptosis, migration, and invasiveness, including RECK and TIMP3, suppressors of malignancy and inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Specific inhibition of miR-21 with antisense olgonucleotides leads to elevated levels of RECK and TIMP3 and therefore reduces MMP activities in vitro and in a human model of glioma in nude mice. Moreover, down-regulation of miR-21 in glioma cells leads to decrease of their migratory and invasion abilities. Our data suggest that miR-21 contributes to the glioma malignancy by down-regulation of MMP inhibitors that leads to activation of MMPs thus promoting invasiveness of cancer cells. Our results also indicate that inhibition of a single oncomir like miR-21 with specific antisense molecules can provide a novel therapeutic approach for “physiological” modulation of multiple proteins whose expression is de-regulated in cancer. "'
GSE11782_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Genome-wide SNP profilling for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) during FOXM1B-induced malignant transformation in a human premalignant oral keratinocyte line SVpgC2a."'
GSE11782_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: oral cancer, keratinocytes, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, FOXM1, genomic instability, SNP array, loss of heterozygosity, malignant transformation"'
GSE11782_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"Eight FOXM1B-induced malignant clones (SVFN1-8) that grew in soft agar were grown as individual cell lines and gDNA harvested from each clone for SNP array analysis compared to wild-type non-transformed SVpgC2a as control to obtain loss of heterozygosity profiles."'
GSE11791_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The gene expression profile generated after estrogen treatment was compared with that following inducible expression of c-Myc or c-Zip (a deletion mutant of c-Myc that lacks the N-terminal transactivation domains) in clonal MCF-7 cell lines."'
GSE11791_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The gene expression profile generated after estrogen treatment was compared with that following inducible expression of c-Myc or c-Zip (a deletion mutant of c-Myc that lacks the N-terminal transactivation domains) in clonal MCF-7 cell lines."'
GSE11795_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_overall_design	"Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are capable of indefinite self-renewal but can also be induced to undergo a stepwise process of differentiation into a spectrum of recognizable mature blood cell types. However, a clear understanding of the molecular mechanism by which the first hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) acquire their unique defining properties of self-renewal and repopulating potential is lacking.  As a first step towards obtaining the information needed to close this gap, we have undertaken a comparative gene expression analysis of different highly purified primitive human hematopoietic subpopulations (erythroid-megakaryocytic progenitor enriched CD43+CD235a+CD41a+/- cells, mutiplepotent progenitor enriched lin-CD34+CD43+CD45-, and lin-CD34+CD43+CD45+ cells) generated either in vitro from hESCs or in vivo from fetal (human fetal liver lin-CD34+CD38- cells) or neonatal hematopoietic primitive cells (human cord blood lin-CD34+CD38- and lin-CD34+CD38+ cells). This involved preparing a long serial analysis of gene expression (LongSAGE) library from an extracts of each prospectively isolated subpopulation and then sequencing each library to a depth of 200,000 tags."'
GSE11819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas (IHCA) are benign liver tumours defined by the presence of inflammatory infiltrates and by the elevated expression of inflammatory proteins in tumour hepatocytes1,2. Here we show a striking activation of the IL6 signalling pathway in this tumour type, and sequencing candidate genes pinpointed this response to somatic gain-of-function mutations in the IL6ST gene that encodes the signalling co-receptor gp130. Indeed, ~70% of IHCA harbour small in-frame deletions that target the binding site of gp130 for IL6, and expression of the most frequent gp130 mutant, Delta-STVY190, in hepatocellular cells activates STAT3 in absence of ligand. Further, analysis of hepatocellular carcinomas revealed rare gp130 alterations always accompanied by ß-catenin-activating mutations, suggesting a cooperative effect of these signalling pathways in the malignant conversion of hepatocytes. The recurrent gain-of-function gp130 mutations in these human hepatocellular adenomas explains their inflammatory phenotype, and suggest that similar alterations may occur in other inflammatory epithelial tumours with STAT3 activation. "'
GSE11866-GPL4819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We focused on REDD1 a gene known to be rapidly induced by a wide variety of stress conditions and DNA damages. REDD1 expression was early and highly induced after bortezomib exposure. REDD1 induction was associated with the dephosphorylation of  P70 S6 ribosomal kinase (P70S6K), a key substrate of mTOR. These effects were dependent upon cell line. REDD1 was overexpressed within two hours in bortezomib resistant cell lines in association with a cell size decrease. In sensitive cell lines, neither REDD1 induction nor morphological changes occurred. RNA interference mediated inhibition of REDD1 induction abrogates P70S6K dephosphorylation, early transitory cell size reduction and enhances sensitivity to bortezomib - dexamethasone."'
GSE11866-GPL4820_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We focused on REDD1 a gene known to be rapidly induced by a wide variety of stress conditions and DNA damages. REDD1 expression was early and highly induced after bortezomib exposure. REDD1 induction was associated with the dephosphorylation of  P70 S6 ribosomal kinase (P70S6K), a key substrate of mTOR. These effects were dependent upon cell line. REDD1 was overexpressed within two hours in bortezomib resistant cell lines in association with a cell size decrease. In sensitive cell lines, neither REDD1 induction nor morphological changes occurred. RNA interference mediated inhibition of REDD1 induction abrogates P70S6K dephosphorylation, early transitory cell size reduction and enhances sensitivity to bortezomib - dexamethasone."'
GSE11872_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Metaphase comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH) studies indicate that chromosomes 4, 5, 6, 13, 14, 15 and 18 are frequently deleted in primary ovarian cancers (OC). Therefore, we used microcell-mediated chromosome transfer (MMCT) to establish the functional effects of transferring normal copies of these chromosomes into two epithelial OC cell lines. The in vitro neoplastic phenotype (measured as anchorage dependent and independent growth and invasion) was compared between recipient OC cell lines and multiple MMCT hybrids. Chromosomes 6 and 18 showed strong evidence of functional, neoplastic suppression for multiple hybrids in both cell lines. We also found evidence in one cancer cell line suggesting that chromosomes 4, 13 and 14 may also cause functional suppression. Array CGH and microsatellite analyses were used to characterise the extent of genomic transfer in chromosome 6 and 18 hybrids. A 35Mb deletion on chromosome 6 in two hybrids from one cell line mapped the candidate region proximal to 6q15 and distal to 6q22.2; and an approximate 10Mb candidate region spanning the centromere on chromosome 18 was identified in another two hybrids from the other cell line. These data confirm reported functional effects of chromosome 6 in OC cell lines; but to our knowledge, this is the first time that functional suppression for chromosome18 has been reported. This suggests that these chromosomes may harbour genes that behave as tumour suppressors. The future identification of these genes may have a significant impact on the understanding and treatment of the disease and the identification of novel therapeutic targets."'
GSE11889_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"The hematopoietic stem cell in chronic phase CML is characterized by a transcriptional profile resembling normal myeloid progenitor cells and reflecting loss of quiescence"'
GSE11889_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We found that composition of cell subsets within the CD34+ cell population is markedly altered in chronic phase (CP) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Specifically, proportions and absolute cell counts of common myeloid progenitors (CMP) and megakaryocyte-erythrocyte progenitors (MEP) are significantly greater in comparison to normal bone marrow whereas absolute numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) are equal. To understand the basis for this, we performed gene expression profiling (Affymetrix HU-133A 2.0) of the distinct CD34+ cell subsets from six patients with CP CML and five healthy donors. Euclidean distance analysis revealed a remarkable transcriptional similarity between the CML patients' HSC and normal progenitors, especially CMP. CP CML HSC were transcriptionally more similar to their progeny than normal HSC to theirs, suggesting a more mature phenotype. Hence, the greatest differences between CP CML patients and normal donors were apparent in HSC including downregulation of genes encoding adhesion molecules, transcription factors, regulators of stem-cell fate and inhibitors of cell proliferation in CP CML. Impaired adhesive and migratory capacities were functionally corroborated by fibronectin detachment analysis and transwell assays, respectively. Based on our findings we propose a loss of quiescence of the CML HSC on detachment from the niche leading to expansion of myeloid progenitors."'
GSE11889_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"We found that composition of cell subsets within the CD34+ cell population is markedly altered in chronic phase (CP) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Specifically, proportions and absolute cell counts of common myeloid progenitors (CMP) and megakaryocyte-erythrocyte progenitors (MEP) are significantly greater in comparison to normal bone marrow whereas absolute numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) are equal. To understand the basis for this, we performed gene expression profiling (Affymetrix HU-133A 2.0) of the distinct CD34+ cell subsets from six patients with CP CML and five healthy donors. Euclidean distance analysis revealed a remarkable transcriptional similarity between the CML patients' HSC and normal progenitors, especially CMP. CP CML HSC were transcriptionally more similar to their progeny than normal HSC to theirs, suggesting a more mature phenotype. Hence, the greatest differences between CP CML patients and normal donors were apparent in HSC including downregulation of genes encoding adhesion molecules, transcription factors, regulators of stem-cell fate and inhibitors of cell proliferation in CP CML. Impaired adhesive and migratory capacities were functionally corroborated by fibronectin detachment analysis and transwell assays, respectively. Based on our findings we propose a loss of quiescence of the CML HSC on detachment from the niche leading to expansion of myeloid progenitors."'
GSE11902_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Compensatory IKKa activation of classical NF-kB signaling during IKKb inhibition"'
GSE11902_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), termed activated B-cell-like (ABC) DLBCL, depends on constitutive NF-kB pathway signaling for survival. Small molecule inhibitors of IkB kinase b (IKKb), a key regulator of the NF-kB pathway, kill ABC DLBCL cells and hold promise for the treatment of this lymphoma type. We conducted an RNA interference genetic screen to investigate potential mechanisms of resistance of ABC DLBCL cells to IKKb inhibitors. We screened a library of small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) targeting 500 protein kinases for shRNAs that would kill an ABC DLBCL cell line in the presence of a small molecule IKKb inhibitor more effectively than in its absence. Two independent shRNAs targeting IKKa synergized with the IKKb inhibitor to kill three different ABC DLBCL cell lines but were not toxic by themselves. Surprisingly, IKKa shRNAs blocked the classical rather than the alternative NF-kB pathway in ABC DLBCL cells, as judged by inhibition of IkBa phosphorylation. IKKa shRNA toxicity was reversed by coexpression of wild type but not kinase inactive forms of IKKa, suggesting that IKKa may directly phosphorylate IkBa under conditions of IKKb inhibition. These results suggest that therapy for ABC DLBCL may be improved by targeting both IKKa and IKKb."'
GSE11903_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_overall_design	"In this study 15 patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis were given 50mg of etanercept (Amgen) biweekly for 12 weeks. And analyzed using gene array on mRNA extracted from tissue collected at each biopsy time point (non-lesional Time: 0; lesional Time: 0, weeks 1, 2, 4, and 12).  Patients were stratified as “responders” or “non-responders” based on whether or not they achieved histologic disease resolution by week 12 of etanercept treatment (decreased epidermal thickening, normalization of proliferation marker Ki67, and loss of differentiation marker K16)."'
GSE11904_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_overall_design	"A total of 57 frozen RCC samples were stained for HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha, and genotyped for VHL. 5 VHL WT/HIF-negative, 8 VHL-deficient/HIF-1alpha+/HIF-2alpha+ and 8 VHL-deficient/HIF-2alpha+ tumors were selected for microarray"'
GSE11929-GPL2843_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Identification of a subgroup of head and neck cancers lacking numerical chromosomal aberrations"'
GSE11929-GPL3441_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Identification of a subgroup of head and neck cancers lacking numerical chromosomal aberrations"'
GSE11940_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Topoisomerase II inhibition involves characteristic chromosomal expression patterns: Doxorubicin study"'
GSE11941_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Topoisomerase II inhibition involves characteristic chromosomal expression patterns: Trovafloxacin study"'
GSE11942_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Topoisomerase II inhibition involves characteristic chromosomal expression patterns"'
GSE11951_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression variation induced by loss of the CD146 mRNA in MDA-MB-231"'
GSE11951_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Metastasis is a complex process involving loss of adhesion, migration, invasion and proliferation of cancer cells. Cell adhesion molecules play a pivotal role in this phenomenon by regulating cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. CD146 (MCAM) is associated with advanced tumor stage in melanoma, prostate and ovarian cancers."'
GSE11958_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"We report on the analyses of four unrelated patients with de novo, overlapping, hemizygous deletions of the long arm of chromosome 10. These include two small terminal deletions (10q26.2 to 10qter), a larger terminal deletion (10q26.12 to 10qter), and an interstitial deletion (10q25.3q26.13). Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) studies (Illumina 550 K) established that these deletions resulted in the hemizygous loss of approximately 6.1, approximately 6.1, approximately 12.5, and approximately 7.0 Mb respectively. Additionally, these data establish that Patients 1, 2, and 3 share common, distal, hemizygous deleted regions of 6.09 Mb containing 37 RefSeq genes. Patients 3 and 4 share a 2.52 Mb deleted region corresponding to the proximal deleted region of Patient 3 and the distal deleted region of Patient 4. This common, hemizygous region contains 20 RefSeq genes including two H6 family homeobox genes (HMX2 and HMX3). Based on previous reports that Hmx2/Hmx3 knockout mice have vestibular anomalies, we propose that hemizygous deletions of HMX2 and HMX3 are responsible for the inner ear malformations observed from CT images, vestibular dysfunction, and congenital sensorineural hearing loss found in Patients 3 and 4."'
GSE11958_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"We report on the analyses of four unrelated patients with de novo, overlapping, hemizygous deletions of the long arm of chromosome 10. These include two small terminal deletions (10q26.2 to 10qter), a larger terminal deletion (10q26.12 to 10qter), and an interstitial deletion (10q25.3q26.13). Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) studies (Illumina 550 K) established that these deletions resulted in the hemizygous loss of approximately 6.1, approximately 6.1, approximately 12.5, and approximately 7.0 Mb respectively. Additionally, these data establish that Patients 1, 2, and 3 share common, distal, hemizygous deleted regions of 6.09 Mb containing 37 RefSeq genes. Patients 3 and 4 share a 2.52 Mb deleted region corresponding to the proximal deleted region of Patient 3 and the distal deleted region of Patient 4. This common, hemizygous region contains 20 RefSeq genes including two H6 family homeobox genes (HMX2 and HMX3). Based on previous reports that Hmx2/Hmx3 knockout mice have vestibular anomalies, we propose that hemizygous deletions of HMX2 and HMX3 are responsible for the inner ear malformations observed from CT images, vestibular dysfunction, and congenital sensorineural hearing loss found in Patients 3 and 4."'
GSE11958_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We report on the analyses of four unrelated patients with de novo, overlapping, hemizygous deletions of the long arm of chromosome 10. These include two small terminal deletions (10q26.2 to 10qter), a larger terminal deletion (10q26.12 to 10qter), and an interstitial deletion (10q25.3q26.13). Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) studies (Illumina 550 K) established that these deletions resulted in the hemizygous loss of approximately 6.1, approximately 6.1, approximately 12.5, and approximately 7.0 Mb respectively. Additionally, these data establish that Patients 1, 2, and 3 share common, distal, hemizygous deleted regions of 6.09 Mb containing 37 RefSeq genes. Patients 3 and 4 share a 2.52 Mb deleted region corresponding to the proximal deleted region of Patient 3 and the distal deleted region of Patient 4. This common, hemizygous region contains 20 RefSeq genes including two H6 family homeobox genes (HMX2 and HMX3). Based on previous reports that Hmx2/Hmx3 knockout mice have vestibular anomalies, we propose that hemizygous deletions of HMX2 and HMX3 are responsible for the inner ear malformations observed from CT images, vestibular dysfunction, and congenital sensorineural hearing loss found in Patients 3 and 4."'
GSE11967-GPL5175_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The vast majority of human genes (.70%) are alternatively spliced. Although alternative pre-mRNA  processing is modified in multiple tumors, alternative hyper-splicing signatures specific to particular tumor types are still  lacking. Here, we report the use of Affymetrix Human Exon Arrays to spot hyper-splicing events characteristic of myasthenia  gravis (MG)-thymoma, thymic tumors which develop in patients with MG and discriminate them from colon cancer changes.  Methodology/Principal Findings: We combined GO term to parent threshold-based and threshold-independent ad-hoc  functional statistics with in-depth analysis of key modified transcripts to highlight various exon-specific changes. These  denote alternative splicing in MG-thymoma tumors compared to healthy human thymus and to in-house and Affymetrix  datasets from colon cancer and healthy tissues. By using both global and specific, term-to-parent Gene Ontology (GO)  statistical comparisons, our functional integrative ad-hoc method allowed the detection of disease-relevant splicing events.  Conclusions/Significance: Hyper-spliced transcripts spanned several categories, including the tumorogenic ERBB4 tyrosine  kinase receptor and the connective tissue growth factor CTGF, as well as the immune function-related histocompatability  gene HLA-DRB1 and interleukin (IL)19, two muscle-specific collagens and one myosin heavy chain gene; intriguingly, a  putative new exon was discovered in the MG-involved acetylcholinesterase ACHE gene. Corresponding changes in  spliceosome composition were indicated by co-decreases in the splicing factors ASF/SF2 and SC35. Parallel tumor-associated  changes occurred in colon cancer as well, but the majority of the apparent hyper-splicing events were particular to MGthymoma  and could be validated by Fluorescent In-Situ Hybridization (FISH), Reverse Transcription–Polymerase Chain  Reaction (RT-PCR) and mass spectrometry (MS) followed by peptide sequencing. Our findings demonstrate a particular  alternative hyper-splicing signature for transcripts over-expressed in MG-thymoma, supporting the hypothesis that  alternative hyper-splicing contributes to shaping the biological functions of these and other specialized tumors and  opening new venues for the development of diagnosis and treatment approaches"'
GSE11967-GPL5188_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The vast majority of human genes (.70%) are alternatively spliced. Although alternative pre-mRNA  processing is modified in multiple tumors, alternative hyper-splicing signatures specific to particular tumor types are still  lacking. Here, we report the use of Affymetrix Human Exon Arrays to spot hyper-splicing events characteristic of myasthenia  gravis (MG)-thymoma, thymic tumors which develop in patients with MG and discriminate them from colon cancer changes.  Methodology/Principal Findings: We combined GO term to parent threshold-based and threshold-independent ad-hoc  functional statistics with in-depth analysis of key modified transcripts to highlight various exon-specific changes. These  denote alternative splicing in MG-thymoma tumors compared to healthy human thymus and to in-house and Affymetrix  datasets from colon cancer and healthy tissues. By using both global and specific, term-to-parent Gene Ontology (GO)  statistical comparisons, our functional integrative ad-hoc method allowed the detection of disease-relevant splicing events.  Conclusions/Significance: Hyper-spliced transcripts spanned several categories, including the tumorogenic ERBB4 tyrosine  kinase receptor and the connective tissue growth factor CTGF, as well as the immune function-related histocompatability  gene HLA-DRB1 and interleukin (IL)19, two muscle-specific collagens and one myosin heavy chain gene; intriguingly, a  putative new exon was discovered in the MG-involved acetylcholinesterase ACHE gene. Corresponding changes in  spliceosome composition were indicated by co-decreases in the splicing factors ASF/SF2 and SC35. Parallel tumor-associated  changes occurred in colon cancer as well, but the majority of the apparent hyper-splicing events were particular to MGthymoma  and could be validated by Fluorescent In-Situ Hybridization (FISH), Reverse Transcription–Polymerase Chain  Reaction (RT-PCR) and mass spectrometry (MS) followed by peptide sequencing. Our findings demonstrate a particular  alternative hyper-splicing signature for transcripts over-expressed in MG-thymoma, supporting the hypothesis that  alternative hyper-splicing contributes to shaping the biological functions of these and other specialized tumors and  opening new venues for the development of diagnosis and treatment approaches"'
GSE12008-GPL6244_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_summary	"LMX1B is a LIM-homeodomain transcription factor essential for development. Putative LMX1B target genes have been identified through mouse gene targeting studies; however, in the absence of in vivo molecular characterization of their regulation, their identity as direct LMX1B targets remains hypothetical. We describe here the first molecular characterization of LMX1B target gene regulation. A tetracycline-inducible expression system and microarray analysis showed that a subset of NF-kappa B target genes, including IL-6 and IL-8 are upregulated in LMX1B-expressing HeLa cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that LMX1B binds to the proximal promoter region of IL-6 and IL-8 in vivo, in the vicinity of the characterized kappa B site, and that LMX1B recruitment correlates with an increased NF-kappa B DNA association. Inhibition of NF-kappa B activity by short interfering RNA-mediated knock-down of p65 impairs LMX1B-dependent induction of NF-kappa B target genes, while activation of NF-kappa B activity by TNF-alpha results in a synergistic induction of these genes by LMX1B. IL-6 promoter-driven reporter assays showed that the kappa B site and an adjacent putative LMX1B binding motif are both involved in LMX1B-mediated transcription. Expression of a number of NF-kappa B target genes is affected in the kidney of Lmx1b-/- knock-out mice, thus supporting the biological relevance of the data obtained in the human cell line. Together, these data demonstrate for the first time that LMX1B directly regulates transcription of a subset of NF-kappa B target genes in cooperation with nuclear p50/p65 NF-kappa B."'
GSE12008-GPL6244_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knock-out' in '!Series_overall_design	"Mouse subset (GSM304379-GSM304384): Three kidney samples from newborn wild-type mice and from newborn Lmx1b-/- knock-out mice were processed for gene expression array analyses using an Agilent platform."'
GSE12011_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12011_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12011_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Precise regulation of the formation, maintenance, and remodeling of the vasculature is required for normal development, tissue response to injury, and tumor progression. How specific microRNAs intersect with and modulate angiogenic signaling cascades is unknown. Here, we identified microRNAs that were enriched in endothelial cells derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and in developing mouse embryos. We found that miR-126 regulated the response of endothelial cells to VEGF. Additionally, knockdown of miR-126 in zebrafish resulted in loss of vascular integrity and hemorrhage during embryonic development. miR-126 functioned in part by directly repressing negative regulators of the VEGF pathway, including the Sprouty-related protein SPRED1 and phosphoinositol-3 kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2/p85-β). Increased expression of Spred1 or inhibition of VEGF signaling in zebrafish resulted in defects similar to miR-126 knockdown. These findings illustrate that a single miRNA can regulate vascular integrity and angiogenesis, providing a new target for modulating vascular formation and function."'
GSE12027_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is characterized by cystic lung destruction caused by smooth, muscle-like LAM cells which have mutations in the tumor suppressor genes Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) 1 or 2, and the capacity to metastasize. Since chemokines and their receptors function in chemotaxis of metastatic cells, we hypothesized that LAM cells may be recruited by chemokine(s) in the lung.  Quantification of 25 chemokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from LAM patients and healthy volunteers revealed that concentrations of MCP-1/CCL2, GROa/CXCL1 and ENA-78/CXCL5 were significantly higher in samples from LAM patients than healthy volunteers.  In this transcript analysis, expression of chemokine and chemokine receptor mRNA in LAM cells differed from those in melanoma and smooth muscle cells.  Subsequent immunohistochemistry of lung sections from 30 LAM patients confirmed protein expression of chemokines and these receptors varied among LAM patient and differed from that seen in breast cancer and melanoma cells. .   In vitro, MCP-1/CCL2 induced selective migration of cells showing loss of heterozygosity of TSC2 from a heterogeneous populations of cells grown from explanted LAM lungs. In addition, the frequencies of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the MCP-1 gene promoter region differed significantly in LAM patients and healthy volunteers (p=0.018), and one polymorphism was associated significantly more frequently with the decline of lung function. These observations are consistent with the notion that chemokines such as MCP-1 may serve to specify site of LAM cell metastasis."'
GSE12040_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Primary serous ovarian carcinoma (OVCA) and serous Fallopian tube carcinoma (FTC), both belonging to the BRCA-linked tumour spectrum, share many properties and are treated similarly. However, a detailed molecular comparison has been lacking. We hypothesized that comparative genomic studies of serous OVCAs and FTCs should point to gene regions critically involved in their tumorigenesis. Array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) analysis indicated that serous OVCAs and serous FTCs displayed common but also more distinctive patterns of recurrent changes. Targeted gene identification using a dedicated multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) probe set directly identified EIF2C2 on 8q as a potentially important driver gene. Other previously unappreciated gained/amplified genes included PSMB4 on 1q, MTSS1 on 8q, TEAD4 and TSPAN9 on 12p, and BCAS4 on 20q. SPINT2 and ACTN4 on 19q were predominantly found in FTCs. Gains/amplifications of CCNE1 and MYC, often in conjunction with changes in genes of the AKT pathway, EVI1 and PTK2, seemed to be involved at earlier stages, whereas changes of ERBB2 were associated with advanced stages. The only BRCA1-mutated FTC shared common denominators with the sporadic tumours. In conclusion, the data suggest that serous OVCAs and FTCs, although related, exhibit differences in genomic profiles. In addition to known pathways, new genes/pathways are likely to be involved, with changes in an miRNA-associated gene, EIF2C2, as one important new feature. Dedicated MLPA sets constitute potentially important tools for differential diagnosis and may provide footholds for tailored therapy."'
GSE12046-GPL7031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with R2G mutant virus "'
GSE12046-GPL7031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with R2G mutant virus (expressing a mutated version of small e1a)."'
GSE12046-GPL7032_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with R2G mutant virus "'
GSE12046-GPL7032_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with R2G mutant virus (expressing a mutated version of small e1a)."'
GSE12047-GPL7031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with deltaCR2 mutant virus "'
GSE12047-GPL7031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with deltaCR2 mutant virus "'
GSE12047-GPL7032_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with deltaCR2 mutant virus "'
GSE12047-GPL7032_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Expression profiles and ChIP on chip genomewide experiments with deltaCR2 mutant virus "'
GSE12056_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression Profile of CREB knockdown in Myeloid Leukemia Cells"'
GSE12056_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Background.  The cAMP Response Element Binding Protein, CREB, is a transcription factor that regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, and survival in several model systems, including neuronal and hematopoietic cells.  We demonstrated that CREB is overexpressed in acute myeloid and leukemia cells compared to normal hematopoietic stem cells.  CREB knockdown inhibits leukemic cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, but does not affect long-term hematopoietic reconstitution.  Therefore, we propose CREB to be a potential target for therapy.  To understand downstream pathways regulating CREB, we performed expression profiling with RNA from the K562 myeloid leukemia cell line."'
GSE12056_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"By combining our expression data from CREB knockdown cells with prior ChIP data on CREB binding we were able to identify a list of putative CREB regulated genes.  We performed extensive analyses on the top genes in this list as high confidence CREB targets.  We found that this list is enriched for genes involved in cancer, and unexpectedly, highly enriched for histone genes.  Furthermore, histone genes regulated by CREB were more likely to be specifically expressed in hematopoietic lineages.  The transcription factor Elk-1 was upregulated in response to CREB deletion."'
GSE12056_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"By combining our expression data from CREB knockdown cells with prior ChIP data on CREB binding we were able to identify a list of putative CREB regulated genes.  We performed extensive analyses on the top genes in this list as high confidence CREB targets.  We found that this list is enriched for genes involved in cancer, and unexpectedly, highly enriched for histone genes.  Furthermore, histone genes regulated by CREB were more likely to be specifically expressed in hematopoietic lineages.  The transcription factor Elk-1 was upregulated in response to CREB deletion."'
GSE12064_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Over-expression of the polycomb group gene BMI-1 is implicated in the pathogenesis of many human cancers.  In this study, we investigate the role of BMI-1 as a functional oncogene in the Ewing’s Sarcoma Family of Tumors (ESFT), a highly aggressive group of bone and soft tissue tumors. Our data show that BMI-1 is highly expressed by the majority of primary ESFT and ESFT cell lines. However, in contrast to previous reports in other human cancer cell types, knockdown of BMI-1 in ESFT cell lines has no effect on cell survival.  Instead, gain and loss of function studies in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that BMI-1 promotes the anchorage independent growth and tumorigenicity of ESFT. Importantly, we also find that modulation of BMI-1 alters the tumorigenicity of both p16-wild type and p16-null cell lines and that BMI-1-mediated effects on growth promotion are independent of CDKN2a repression. Gene expression profiling of ESFT cells following BMI-1 modulation reveals novel downstream effectors of BMI-1 function including key developmental, cell:cell and cell:matrix adhesion pathways. These data support a central role for BMI-1 in the pathogenesis of ESFT and reveal that p16-independent functions of BMI-1 are largely responsible for its oncogenic function in this tumor family."'
GSE12064_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"Over-expression of the polycomb group gene BMI-1 is implicated in the pathogenesis of many human cancers.  In this study, we investigate the role of BMI-1 as a functional oncogene in the Ewing’s Sarcoma Family of Tumors (ESFT), a highly aggressive group of bone and soft tissue tumors. Our data show that BMI-1 is highly expressed by the majority of primary ESFT and ESFT cell lines. However, in contrast to previous reports in other human cancer cell types, knockdown of BMI-1 in ESFT cell lines has no effect on cell survival.  Instead, gain and loss of function studies in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that BMI-1 promotes the anchorage independent growth and tumorigenicity of ESFT. Importantly, we also find that modulation of BMI-1 alters the tumorigenicity of both p16-wild type and p16-null cell lines and that BMI-1-mediated effects on growth promotion are independent of CDKN2a repression. Gene expression profiling of ESFT cells following BMI-1 modulation reveals novel downstream effectors of BMI-1 function including key developmental, cell:cell and cell:matrix adhesion pathways. These data support a central role for BMI-1 in the pathogenesis of ESFT and reveal that p16-independent functions of BMI-1 are largely responsible for its oncogenic function in this tumor family."'
GSE12064_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Over-expression of the polycomb group gene BMI-1 is implicated in the pathogenesis of many human cancers.  In this study, we investigate the role of BMI-1 as a functional oncogene in the Ewing’s Sarcoma Family of Tumors (ESFT), a highly aggressive group of bone and soft tissue tumors. Our data show that BMI-1 is highly expressed by the majority of primary ESFT and ESFT cell lines. However, in contrast to previous reports in other human cancer cell types, knockdown of BMI-1 in ESFT cell lines has no effect on cell survival.  Instead, gain and loss of function studies in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that BMI-1 promotes the anchorage independent growth and tumorigenicity of ESFT. Importantly, we also find that modulation of BMI-1 alters the tumorigenicity of both p16-wild type and p16-null cell lines and that BMI-1-mediated effects on growth promotion are independent of CDKN2a repression. Gene expression profiling of ESFT cells following BMI-1 modulation reveals novel downstream effectors of BMI-1 function including key developmental, cell:cell and cell:matrix adhesion pathways. These data support a central role for BMI-1 in the pathogenesis of ESFT and reveal that p16-independent functions of BMI-1 are largely responsible for its oncogenic function in this tumor family."'
GSE12089_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The capacity of dendritic cells (DC) to migrate from peripheral organs to lymph nodes (LN) is an important event in the initiation of a T cell-mediated immune response. Previously it was shown that the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp; ABCB1) and the 2 multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1; ABCC1) play a role in both human and murine DC migration. Here we show that a more recently discovered family-member, MRP4 (ABCC4) is expressed on both epidermal and dermal human skin DC and contributes to the migratory capacity of DC. Pharmacological inhibition of MRP4 activity or down-regulation through RNAi in DC resulted in reduced migration of DC from human skin explants and of in vitro generated Langerhans cells. The responsible MRP4 substrate remains to be identified as exogenous addition of MRP4’s known substrates PGE2, leukotriene B4 and D4 or cyclic nucleotides (all previously implicated in DC migration) could not restore migration. This notwithstanding, our data show that MRP4 is an important molecule, significantly contributing to human DC migration towards the draining lymph nodes, and thereby relevant for the initiation of an immune response and a possible target for immunotherapy."'
GSE12089_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Keywords: cell type comparison, RNAi knockdown for MRP4"'
GSE12115_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Recent studies have suggested that elevated expression of aldoketoreductase (AKR) 1C1 or 1C2 in tumour cells is associated with increased resistance to DNA damaging agents such as cisplatin and doxorubicin.  However, it has not been shown whether selection of tumour cells for resistance to DNA-damaging anthracyclines actually results in increased expression of AKRs and increased conversion of anthracyclines to 10-fold less toxic 13-hydroxy metabolites.  It is also unclear whether the induction of aldokeoreductases is temporally correlated with the onset of anthracycline resistance and whether there is a direct relationship between the level of AKR expression or activity and the magnitude of drug resistance.  Through microarray profiling of MCF-7 breast cancer cells selected for progressive resistance to doxorubicin or epirubicin, we have identified several genes whose expression has been correlated with both the onset and magnitude of drug resistance, including a “1C” AKR.  AKR 1C overexpression was verified by quantitative PCR.  Also associated with the onset of anthracycline resistance were genes involved in drug transport (ABCB1), cell signaling and transcription (RDC1, CXCR4), cell proliferation or apoptosis (BMP7, CAV1), ROS protection (TXNRD1, MT2A), and structural or immune system proteins (IFI30, STMN1).  Consistent with the role of AKRs in anthracycline resistance, doxorubicin- and epirubicin-resistant breast tumour cells exhibited 2.2-fold and 6.1-fold higher levels of the 13-hydroxy metabolite of doxorubicin (doxorubicinol) than wildtype MCF-7 cells.  In addition, an inhibitor of AKR 1C2 (5beta-cholanic acid) almost completely restored sensitivity to doxorubicin in Abcb1-deficient doxorubicin-resistant cells, while having no effect on Abcb1-expressing epirubicin-resistant cells.  Taken together, our findings strongly suggest the involvement of multiple genes in the acquisition of anthracycline resistance in breast tumor cells---in particular redox genes such as the 1C AKRs."'
GSE12119-GPL6545_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Human embryonic stem (ES) cell lines acquire recurrent karyotypic abnormalities that may promote growth and survival in long-term culture.  Cells with these abnormalities are often present at low levels in human ES cell cultures, requiring subcloning for isolation and analyses.  We have developed a rapid method to isolate either abnormal or normal clones from karyotypically mosaic human ES cell cultures that we call Genetic Diagnosis at Passage (G-DAP).  We have used this technique to isolate three distinct abnormal sublines from H9 human ES cells in continuous culture.  These sublines were characterized by G-banding, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), spectral karyotyping (SKY), and array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH).  One subline (H9.DT) has, as it’s only abnormality, a duplication of 12p capped by a 5q subtelomere.  A related subline (H9.TSF) has an additional copy of the derivative chromosome 12, partial trisomy of 17q, and trisomy 14.  The third subline (H9.DE) has an interstitial deletion of 18q as the sole anomaly.  Despite these karyotypic abnormalities, all three sublines retain markers of the undifferentiated state.  The subline H9.TSF demonstrated the ability to form embryoid bodies consisting of all three germ layers.  Significantly, H9.DT and H9.TSF sublines show a classic karyotype progression that mirrors that seen in both hematopoietic and solid tumors.  This progression was accompanied by an impressive increase in growth potential.  The isolation of human ES cell sublines with clonal cytogenetic abnormalities provides a valuable tool for study of factors that promote in vitro genetic changes and for analysis of mechanisms of aneuploidy related to genetic progression found in human cancers. "'
GSE12119-GPL7057_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Human embryonic stem (ES) cell lines acquire recurrent karyotypic abnormalities that may promote growth and survival in long-term culture.  Cells with these abnormalities are often present at low levels in human ES cell cultures, requiring subcloning for isolation and analyses.  We have developed a rapid method to isolate either abnormal or normal clones from karyotypically mosaic human ES cell cultures that we call Genetic Diagnosis at Passage (G-DAP).  We have used this technique to isolate three distinct abnormal sublines from H9 human ES cells in continuous culture.  These sublines were characterized by G-banding, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), spectral karyotyping (SKY), and array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH).  One subline (H9.DT) has, as it’s only abnormality, a duplication of 12p capped by a 5q subtelomere.  A related subline (H9.TSF) has an additional copy of the derivative chromosome 12, partial trisomy of 17q, and trisomy 14.  The third subline (H9.DE) has an interstitial deletion of 18q as the sole anomaly.  Despite these karyotypic abnormalities, all three sublines retain markers of the undifferentiated state.  The subline H9.TSF demonstrated the ability to form embryoid bodies consisting of all three germ layers.  Significantly, H9.DT and H9.TSF sublines show a classic karyotype progression that mirrors that seen in both hematopoietic and solid tumors.  This progression was accompanied by an impressive increase in growth potential.  The isolation of human ES cell sublines with clonal cytogenetic abnormalities provides a valuable tool for study of factors that promote in vitro genetic changes and for analysis of mechanisms of aneuploidy related to genetic progression found in human cancers. "'
GSE12119-GPL7737_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Human embryonic stem (ES) cell lines acquire recurrent karyotypic abnormalities that may promote growth and survival in long-term culture.  Cells with these abnormalities are often present at low levels in human ES cell cultures, requiring subcloning for isolation and analyses.  We have developed a rapid method to isolate either abnormal or normal clones from karyotypically mosaic human ES cell cultures that we call Genetic Diagnosis at Passage (G-DAP).  We have used this technique to isolate three distinct abnormal sublines from H9 human ES cells in continuous culture.  These sublines were characterized by G-banding, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), spectral karyotyping (SKY), and array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH).  One subline (H9.DT) has, as it’s only abnormality, a duplication of 12p capped by a 5q subtelomere.  A related subline (H9.TSF) has an additional copy of the derivative chromosome 12, partial trisomy of 17q, and trisomy 14.  The third subline (H9.DE) has an interstitial deletion of 18q as the sole anomaly.  Despite these karyotypic abnormalities, all three sublines retain markers of the undifferentiated state.  The subline H9.TSF demonstrated the ability to form embryoid bodies consisting of all three germ layers.  Significantly, H9.DT and H9.TSF sublines show a classic karyotype progression that mirrors that seen in both hematopoietic and solid tumors.  This progression was accompanied by an impressive increase in growth potential.  The isolation of human ES cell sublines with clonal cytogenetic abnormalities provides a valuable tool for study of factors that promote in vitro genetic changes and for analysis of mechanisms of aneuploidy related to genetic progression found in human cancers. "'
GSE12124_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Children with autosomal recessive deficiency suffer from life-threatening, often recurrent viral or bacterial infections. We have profiled transcriptional responses of fibroblast cell lines derived from patients deficient for key regulators of immune responses such as MYD88, IRAK4, UNC93B, STAT1 or NEMO. This systems immunology approach revealed distinct patterns or responsiveness to stimuli activating the Toll-like/IL1 Receptor pathway in either an MYD88-dependent (IL1B) or independent (poly(I:C)) fashion, or activating the TNF pathway. The prototypic signatures in cell lines derived from patients were as follows: NEMO-deficient cells were unresponsive to all three stimuli, UNC-93B-deficient cells did not respond to poly(I:C), and STAT1-deficient cells responded only weakly to poly(I:C) after eight hours (not shown). MyD88- and IRAK-4-deficient cells had indistinguishable phenotypes, both being unresponsive to IL-1B at both time points. The signatures obtained in response to TNF and poly(I:C) (via TLR3) in these cells were similar to that of control fibroblasts."'
GSE12126-GPL3930_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"	Recent genome-scale ChIP-chip studies of transcription factors have shown that a low percentage of experimentally determined binding sites contain the consensus motif for the immunoprecipitated factor.  In most cases, differences between in vivo target sites that contain or lack a consensus motif have not been explored.  We have previously shown that most sites to which E2F family members are bound in vivo do not contain E2F consensus motifs. The main purpose of this study was to develop an understanding of how E2F binding specificity is achieved in vivo. In particular, we have addressed how E2F family members are recruited to core promoter regions that lack a consensus motif and are excluded from other regions that contain a consensus motif.  Using promoter and ENCODE arrays, we have shown that the predominant factors specifying whether E2F is recruited to an in vivo binding site are a) the site must be in a core promoter and b) the promoter region must be utilized as a promoter by the transcriptional machinery in that particular cell type.  We have tested three models for recruitment of E2F to core promoters lacking a consensus site, including a) indirect recruitment, b) looping to the core promoter mediated by an E2F bound to a distal consensus motif, and c) assisted binding of E2F to a site that weakly resembles an E2F consensus motif within the core promoter.  To test these models, we developed a new in vivo assay, termed eChIP, which allows analysis of transcription factor binding to isolated promoter fragments.  Our findings suggest that in vivo a) the presence of a consensus motif is not sufficient to recruit E2Fs, b) E2Fs can bind to isolated regions that lack a consensus motif, and c) binding can require regions other than the best match to the E2F PWM in the core promoter."'
GSE12126-GPL3980_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"	Recent genome-scale ChIP-chip studies of transcription factors have shown that a low percentage of experimentally determined binding sites contain the consensus motif for the immunoprecipitated factor.  In most cases, differences between in vivo target sites that contain or lack a consensus motif have not been explored.  We have previously shown that most sites to which E2F family members are bound in vivo do not contain E2F consensus motifs. The main purpose of this study was to develop an understanding of how E2F binding specificity is achieved in vivo. In particular, we have addressed how E2F family members are recruited to core promoter regions that lack a consensus motif and are excluded from other regions that contain a consensus motif.  Using promoter and ENCODE arrays, we have shown that the predominant factors specifying whether E2F is recruited to an in vivo binding site are a) the site must be in a core promoter and b) the promoter region must be utilized as a promoter by the transcriptional machinery in that particular cell type.  We have tested three models for recruitment of E2F to core promoters lacking a consensus site, including a) indirect recruitment, b) looping to the core promoter mediated by an E2F bound to a distal consensus motif, and c) assisted binding of E2F to a site that weakly resembles an E2F consensus motif within the core promoter.  To test these models, we developed a new in vivo assay, termed eChIP, which allows analysis of transcription factor binding to isolated promoter fragments.  Our findings suggest that in vivo a) the presence of a consensus motif is not sufficient to recruit E2Fs, b) E2Fs can bind to isolated regions that lack a consensus motif, and c) binding can require regions other than the best match to the E2F PWM in the core promoter."'
GSE12126-GPL4704_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"	Recent genome-scale ChIP-chip studies of transcription factors have shown that a low percentage of experimentally determined binding sites contain the consensus motif for the immunoprecipitated factor.  In most cases, differences between in vivo target sites that contain or lack a consensus motif have not been explored.  We have previously shown that most sites to which E2F family members are bound in vivo do not contain E2F consensus motifs. The main purpose of this study was to develop an understanding of how E2F binding specificity is achieved in vivo. In particular, we have addressed how E2F family members are recruited to core promoter regions that lack a consensus motif and are excluded from other regions that contain a consensus motif.  Using promoter and ENCODE arrays, we have shown that the predominant factors specifying whether E2F is recruited to an in vivo binding site are a) the site must be in a core promoter and b) the promoter region must be utilized as a promoter by the transcriptional machinery in that particular cell type.  We have tested three models for recruitment of E2F to core promoters lacking a consensus site, including a) indirect recruitment, b) looping to the core promoter mediated by an E2F bound to a distal consensus motif, and c) assisted binding of E2F to a site that weakly resembles an E2F consensus motif within the core promoter.  To test these models, we developed a new in vivo assay, termed eChIP, which allows analysis of transcription factor binding to isolated promoter fragments.  Our findings suggest that in vivo a) the presence of a consensus motif is not sufficient to recruit E2Fs, b) E2Fs can bind to isolated regions that lack a consensus motif, and c) binding can require regions other than the best match to the E2F PWM in the core promoter."'
GSE12175_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Molecular pharmacology of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibition in human glioma"'
GSE12195_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common form of lymphoma in adulthood, comprises multiple biologically and clinically distinct subtypes including germinal center B cell-like (GCB) and activated B cell like (ABC) DLBCL. Gene expression profile studies have shown that its most aggressive subtype, ABC-DLBCL, is associated with constitutive activation of the NF-kB transcription complex. However, except for a small fraction of cases, it remains unclear whether NF-kB activation in these tumors represents an intrinsic program of the tumor cell of origin or a pathogenetic event. Here we show that >50% of ABC-DLBCL and a smaller fraction of GCB-DLBCL carry somatic mutations at multiple genes, including negative (TNFAIP3/A20) and positive (CARD11, TRAF2, TRAF5, MAP3K7/TAK1 and TNFRSF11A/RANK) regulators of NF-kB. Of these, the A20 gene, which encodes for a ubiquitin-modifying enzyme involved in termination of NF-kB responses, is the most commonly affected one, with ~30% of the patients displaying biallelic inactivation by mutations and/or deletions, suggesting a tumor suppressor role. Less frequently, missense mutations of TRAF2 and CARD11 produce molecules with significantly enhanced ability to activate NF-kB. Thus, our results demonstrate that NF-kB activation in DLBCL is caused by genetic lesions affecting multiple genes, whose loss or activation may promote lymphomagenesis by leading to abnormally prolonged NF-kB responses."'
GSE12205_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Effect of PTP inhibition on changes in gene expression after Cr(VI) exposure"'
GSE12205_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Although the consequences of genotoxic injury include cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, cell survival responses after genotoxic injury can produce intrinsic death-resistance and contribute to the development of a transformed phenotype. Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are integral components of key survival pathways, and are responsible for their inactivation, while PTP inhibition is are often associated with enhanced cell proliferation. Our aim was to elucidate signaling events that modulate cell survival after genotoxin exposure. Diploid human lung fibroblasts (HLF) were treated with Cr(VI) (as Na2CrO4), a well known human respiratory carcinogen that induces a wide spectrum of DNA damage, in the presence and absence of a broad-range PTP inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate. Notably, PTP inhibition abrogated Cr(VI)-induced clonogenic lethality. The enhanced survival of Cr(VI)-exposed cells after PTP inhibition was predominantly due to a bypass of cell cycle arrest and was not due to decreased Cr uptake as evidenced by unchanged Cr-DNA adduct burden. Additionally, the bypass of Cr-induced growth arrest by PTP inhibition, was accompanied by a decrease in Cr(VI)-induced expression of cell cycle inhibiting genes, and an increase in the Cr(VI)-induced expression of cell cycle promoting genes. Importantly, PTP inhibition resulted in an increase in forward mutations at the HPRT locus, supporting the hypothesis that PTP inhibition in the presence of DNA damage may lead to genomic instability, via bypass of cell cycle checkpoints."'
GSE12205_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Although the consequences of genotoxic injury include cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, cell survival responses after genotoxic injury can produce intrinsic death-resistance and contribute to the development of a transformed phenotype. Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are integral components of key survival pathways, and are responsible for their inactivation, while PTP inhibition is are often associated with enhanced cell proliferation. Our aim was to elucidate signaling events that modulate cell survival after genotoxin exposure. Diploid human lung fibroblasts (HLF) were treated with Cr(VI) (as Na2CrO4), a well known human respiratory carcinogen that induces a wide spectrum of DNA damage, in the presence and absence of a broad-range PTP inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate. Notably, PTP inhibition abrogated Cr(VI)-induced clonogenic lethality. The enhanced survival of Cr(VI)-exposed cells after PTP inhibition was predominantly due to a bypass of cell cycle arrest and was not due to decreased Cr uptake as evidenced by unchanged Cr-DNA adduct burden. Additionally, the bypass of Cr-induced growth arrest by PTP inhibition, was accompanied by a decrease in Cr(VI)-induced expression of cell cycle inhibiting genes, and an increase in the Cr(VI)-induced expression of cell cycle promoting genes. Importantly, PTP inhibition resulted in an increase in forward mutations at the HPRT locus, supporting the hypothesis that PTP inhibition in the presence of DNA damage may lead to genomic instability, via bypass of cell cycle checkpoints."'
GSE12208-GPL7085_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We have quantified the effects of filtering various oligonucleotide properties by measuring the resolving power for detecting deletions in the human and C. elegans genomes using NimbleGen microarrays. Approximately twice as many oligonucleotides are typically required to be affected by a deletion in human DNA samples in order to achieve the same statistical confidence as one would observe for a deletion in C. elegans. Surprisingly, the ability to detect deletions strongly depends on the oligonucleotide 15-mer count, which is defined as the sum of the genomic frequency of all the constituent 15-mers within the oligonucleotide. A similarity level above 80% to non-target sequences over the length of the probe produces significant cross-hybridization. We recommend the use of a fairly large melting temperature window of up to 10 C, the elimination of repeat sequences, the elimination of homopolymers longer than 5 nucleotides, and a threshold of -1 kcal/mol on the oligonucleotide self-folding energy. We observed very little difference in data quality when varying the oligonucleotide length between 50 and 70, and even when using an isothermal design strategy. "'
GSE12215_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Significantly, we were able to demonstrate that knockdown of HuR expression using RNA interference, reduced anchorage-independent growth capacity in transformed MCF10A cells as well as decreased protein expression of a number of validated target genes. Our data demonstrate that the global alterations in binding of HuR and AUF1 with target transcripts have a critical role in post-transcriptional regulation of genes encoding proteins involved in breast epithelial cell transformation."'
GSE12225-GPL2641_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Accurate staging of rectal tumors is essential for making the correct treatment choice. In a previous study, we found that loss of 17p, 18q and gain of 8q, 13q and 20q could distinguish adenoma from carcinoma tissue and that loss of 1q was related to lymph node metastasis. In order to find markers for tumor staging, we searched for candidate genes on these specific chromosomes. We performed gene expression microarray analysis on 79 rectal tumors and integrated these data with genomic data from the same sample series (Series GSE7946, Samples GSM194994-GSM195028). We performed supervised analysis to find candidate genes on affected chromosomes and validated the results with qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Approximately 8% of the genes were significantly different between adenomas and carcinomas; the most differently expressed genes were involved in cell adhesion and cell cycle processes. Integration of gene expression and chromosomal instability data revealed a significant genome-wide correlation between these two data types. Supervised analysis identified up-regulation of EFNA1 in cases with 1q gain, and EFNA1 expression was correlated with the expression of a target gene (VEGF). The BOP1 gene, involved in ribosome biogenesis and related to chromosomal instability, was over-expressed in cases with 8q gain. SMAD2 was the most down-regulated gene on 18q, and on 20q, STMN3 and TGIF2 were highly up-regulated. Immunohistochemistry for SMAD4 correlated with SMAD2 gene expression and 18q loss. This study showed a good correlation between chromosomal aberrations and gene expression data. In the near future, specific genes identified by such integrative methods could be of additional value for explaining rectal tumorigenesis."'
GSE12225-GPL3676_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Accurate staging of rectal tumors is essential for making the correct treatment choice. In a previous study, we found that loss of 17p, 18q and gain of 8q, 13q and 20q could distinguish adenoma from carcinoma tissue and that loss of 1q was related to lymph node metastasis. In order to find markers for tumor staging, we searched for candidate genes on these specific chromosomes. We performed gene expression microarray analysis on 79 rectal tumors and integrated these data with genomic data from the same sample series (Series GSE7946, Samples GSM194994-GSM195028). We performed supervised analysis to find candidate genes on affected chromosomes and validated the results with qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Approximately 8% of the genes were significantly different between adenomas and carcinomas; the most differently expressed genes were involved in cell adhesion and cell cycle processes. Integration of gene expression and chromosomal instability data revealed a significant genome-wide correlation between these two data types. Supervised analysis identified up-regulation of EFNA1 in cases with 1q gain, and EFNA1 expression was correlated with the expression of a target gene (VEGF). The BOP1 gene, involved in ribosome biogenesis and related to chromosomal instability, was over-expressed in cases with 8q gain. SMAD2 was the most down-regulated gene on 18q, and on 20q, STMN3 and TGIF2 were highly up-regulated. Immunohistochemistry for SMAD4 correlated with SMAD2 gene expression and 18q loss. This study showed a good correlation between chromosomal aberrations and gene expression data. In the near future, specific genes identified by such integrative methods could be of additional value for explaining rectal tumorigenesis."'
GSE12242_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiling in p53 and p73 double knockdown HCT116-3(6) cells"'
GSE12256_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"During mitosis, TATA-binding protein(TBP), which remains bound to DNA during mitosis, recruits PP2A and also interacts with a subunit of the condensin complex to allow efficient dephosphorylation and inactivation of condensin near these promoters to inhibit their compaction. These result suggest that TBP function is not only important for expression of genes transcribed bDuring mitosis, TATA-binding protein(TBP), which remains bound to DNA during mitosis, recruits PP2A and also interacts with a subunit of the condensin complex to allow efficient dephosphorylation and inactivation of condensin near these promoters to inhibit their compaction. These result suggest that TBP function is not only important for expression of genes transcribed by all three RNA polymerase during interphase, but also for transmitting the memory of gene activity through mitosis to daughter cellsy all three RNA polymerase during interphase, but also for transmitting the memory of gene activity through mitosis to daughter cells"'
GSE12257_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Bioligical pathways and in vitro anti-proliferative activity of Hsp90 inhibition in adult T cell leukemia cells"'
GSE12257_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Background.  Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is essential for the stability and the function of many client proteins, such as ERB2, C-RAF, CDK4, HIF-1 aplha and AKT. Recent reports demonstrated that inhibition of Hsp90 modulates multiple functions required for survival of human cancer, such as myeloma (Mitsiades et al, Blood:107, 1092, 2006), however, the precise mechanism of anti-cancer effect of Hsp90 inhibition is still uncertain."'
GSE12257_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Aim. The aim of this study is evaluate the effect of Hsp90 inhibition, and to identify molecular pathways responsible for anti-proliferative effect on ATL cells."'
GSE12257_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Method. For Hsp90 inhibition, Geldanamycin derivates, 17AAG (17-allylamino -17-demethoxygeldanamycin) and 17DMAG (17-(dimethylaminoethylamino) 17-demethoxygeldanamycin) were used in this study. Interleukin 2-independent ATL cell lines (MT-2 and MT-4) and an interleukin 2-dependent ATL cell line (TaY) were incubated, with or without Hsp90 inhibitors. Fresh ATL cells obtained from patients were also used after obtaining informed consent. Cell numbers at 48 h after incubation with or without Hsp90 inhibitors were assessed with the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay (Dojindo Molecular Technologies, Gaithersburg, MD, USA). For detection of apoptosis, we used Annexin V-biotin apoptosis detection kit (Calbiochem, La Jolla, CA, USA). Gene expression analysis was done using a DNA microarray (NCBI Gene expression omnibus; GPL 2531) and statistical analysis was done by a GeneSifter (VizXlabs, Seattle, WA, USA)."'
GSE12280_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The majority of patients with squamous cell lung cancer (SCC) die because of metastatic disease. The genomic mechanisms underlying this metastatic behaviour are underexposed. We analyzed a cohort of patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) using array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) to identify which genomic aberrations were related metastatic behaviour. The cohort consisted of 34 patients with a follow-up of at least 5 years, including 15 without any metastases, 8 with metastases in regional lymph nodes only, and 11 with metastases exclusively in distant organs within two years after surgery. Common alterations observed in at least 40% of all SCC were gains at 3q13-q29, 5p11-p15, 8q24, 19q13, 20p12-p13, 22q11-q13, and losses at 3p12-p14, 3p24, 4p15, 4q33-q35, 5q14-q23, 5q31-q35, 8p21-p22, 9p21-p24. Amplifications were observed at 2p15-p16, 3q24-q29, 8p11-p12, 8q23-q24, and 12p12, containing candidate oncogenes such as BCL11A, REL, ECT2, PIK3CA, ADAM9, MYC, and KRAS. Gains at 7q36, 8p12, 10q22, 12p12, loss at 4p14 and homozygous deletions at 4q33-q34.1 occurred significantly more frequent in SCC from patients with lymph node metastases. SCC from patients with distant metastases showed a significantly higher frequency of gain at 8q22-q24 and loss of 8p23 and 13q21, and a significantly lower frequency of gain at 2p12 and 2p16 and loss at 11q25 as compared to SCC from patients without metastases. In conclusion, we identified specific genomic aberrations in primary SCC that are related to lymph node or distant metastases. These loci can be further explored for their potential use as predictive or prognostic markers."'
GSE12287_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is essential for the stability and the function of many client proteins, such as ERB2, C-RAF, CDK4, HIF-1 aplha and AKT. Recent reports demonstrated that inhibition of Hsp90 modulates multiple functions required for survival of human cancer, such as myeloma (Mitsiades et al, Blood:107, 1092, 2006), The aim of this study is evaluate the effect of Hsp90 inhibition, and to identify molecular pathways responsible for anti-proliferative effect on ATL cells. For Hsp90 inhibition, Geldanamycin derivates, 17AAG (17-allylamino -17-demethoxygeldanamycin) and 17DMAG (17-(dimethylaminoethylamino) 17-demethoxygeldanamycin) were used in this study. Interleukin 2-independent ATL cell lines (MT-2 and MT-4) and an interleukin 2-dependent ATL cell line (TaY-E10) were incubated, with or without Hsp90 inhibitors. "'
GSE12291_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"human ER-positive breast cancer cell line was cultivated as described and transfection with chemically synthesized siRNAs was performed according to standard HiPerFect transfection protocol by Qiagen (Hilden, Germany) At least 4 cDNA-microarrays were hybridized in dye-swap method for the silencing of every gene of interest. To minimize off-target effects we used at least two different siRNAs per gene."'
GSE12320_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Differential gene expression in GBS6 cells after EWS-POU5F1 knockdown"'
GSE12378_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"RESULTS: The expression profiles exhibit clustering, in unsupervised hierarchical analyses, into two distinct prostate cancer categories, with one group strongly associated with indicators of poor clinical outcome. The two categories are not tightly linked to ERG gene status. Through analysis of the data we identify a subgoup of cancers lacking ERG gene rearrangements that exhibit an outlier pattern of SPINK1 mRNA expression. We also show that a major distinction between ERG gene rearranged and non-rearranged cancers involves the levels of expression of genes linked to exposure to beta-estradiol, and to retinoic acid."'
GSE12386-GPL7149_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Affymetrix exon array analysis of control and hnRNP H knockdown in 293T cells"'
GSE12386-GPL7153_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Affymetrix exon array analysis of control and hnRNP H knockdown in 293T cells"'
GSE12398_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Mutations of the proto-oncogene KRas, together with the inactivation of the onco-suppressor genes APC and TP53, are considered to have an important role both in the carcinogenesis and in the colorectal tumor progression. "'
GSE12398_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"We made for the production of cell clones that could be utilized as useful in vitro models. The adenocarcinoma cell line Colo741 has been chosen to produce stable transfectants for two mutant forms of KRas2 (Gly12Val and Gly12Asp) and the wild-type coding sequence (as experiment control). After the transfection, the cells have been selected (with G418), cloned (by limited dilutions) and screened (by RT-PCR). The total RNAs, Dnase-treated, from five cell clones per condition, have been pooled. "'
GSE12434_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"Macrophage-specific inhibition of NF-κB activation impairs foam cell survival"'
GSE12434_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Macrophage death in advanced atherosclerotic lesions is a key event in the conversion of benign lesions to vulnerable plaques. One fundamental transcription factor that has been shown to play a pivotal role in cell death/survival is nuclear factor kB (NF-kB). Still, the relevance of this key transcription factor for macrophage-derived foam cell survival has not been unequivocally resolved at the molecular level. THP-1 monocytic cell lines were generated in which NF-kB activation is specifically inhibited by overexpression of a trans-dominant, non-degradable form of IkBa (IkBa (32A/36A)) under control of the macrophage-specific SR-A promoter. A diminished lipid loading during NF-κB inhibition during foam cell formation was accompanied by increased cell death. A genome-wide expression profile of NF-kB-dependent genes during foam cell formation was established showing a widespread effect on the macrophage transcriptome. The three largest functional gene clusters identified and validated by independent techniques, were those involved in lipid metabolism, apoptosis and oxidative stress. The net result of these complex gene expression changes invoked by inhibition of NF-κB activation during lipid loading is a reduction of foam cell survival through caspase-dependent apoptosis. Thus, the NF-kB-dependent gene repertoire seems essential for sustained macrophage survival during the process of pathological lipid loading."'
GSE12438_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Effect of individual HDAC knockdown on expression of androgen induced genes"'
GSE12438_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Elevated levels of androgen receptor (AR) in prostate cancer confer resistance to current antiandrogens and play a causal role in disease progression due to persistent target gene activation.  Through pharmacologic and genetic approaches, we show that half of all direct AR target genes, including TMPRSS2, the primary driver of ETS fusion transcripts in 70 percent of human prostate cancers, require histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity for transcriptional activation by AR.  Surprisingly, the HDAC3-NCoR complex, which typically functions to repress gene expression by nuclear receptors, is required for AR target gene activation.  Prostate cancer cells treated with HDAC inhibitors have reduced AR protein levels, but we show that the mechanism of blockade of AR activity is through failure to assemble a coactivator/RNA polymerase II complex after AR binds to the enhancers of target genes.  Failed complex assembly is associated with a phase shift in the cyclical wave of AR recruitment that typically occurs in response to ligand treatment.  HDAC inhibitors retain the ability to block AR activity in hormone refractory prostate cancer models and therefore merit clinical investigation in this setting.  HDAC-regulated AR target genes defined here can serve as biomarkers to ensure sufficient levels of HDAC inhibition."'
GSE12438_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lentiviral shRNA mediated knockdown of Luciferase (ctrl), HDAC1, HDAC2, and HDAC8 LnCAP cells were generated. They were  grown in charcoal stripped, androgen deplete medium. They were then stimulated with or without 1nM R1881. Cyclohexamide was include to block new protein synthesis. Cells were harvested 16 hours after treatment."'
GSE12445_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"BL or 224 cells transfected with siRNA against either mutant NRASQ61R (siMut10 and siMut12) or scrambled control (siSC). Untransfected cells (T0) from Day 0 were used as the baseline control for cells transfected with both siMut and siSC"'
GSE12449_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 play important roles in signaling and migration of T-cells, but little is known about the transcriptional events involved in CXCL12-mediated T-cell migration. In this study we performed microarray analysis on CXCL12- treated T-cells, and found that the Wnt family of proteins was significantly upregulated during CXCL12 treatment. Confirmation of these results by real-time PCR and Western analysis indicated that the non-canonical Wnt pathway was specifically upregulated during CXCL12 treatment. In vitro and in vivo knockdown studies confirm that b-catenin (the key mediator of canonical Wnt signaling) is not involved in the CXCL12-mediated migration of T-cells. However, Wnt5A, a non-canonical Wnt protein, increases signaling through the CXCL12/ CXCR4 axis via Protein Kinase C (PKC). Our results demonstrated that CXCL12 required Wnt5A to mediate T-cell migration, and the treatment of T-cells with recombinant Wnt5A sensitized T-cells to CXCL12 induced migration. Additionally, Wnt5A expression was required for the sustained expression of CXCR4, both transcriptionally and translationally. These results could be translated in vivo, using EL4 thymoma metastasis as a model of T-cell migration. Taken together our data indicate, for the first time, that Wnt5A is a critical mediator of the CXCL12/ CXCR4 signaling axis."'
GSE12470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"To elucidate the mechanisms of rapid progression of serous ovarian cancer, gene expression profiles from forty-three ovarian cancer tissues comprising eight early stage and thirty-five advanced stage tissues were performed using oligonucleotide microarrays of 18,716 genes. By non-negative matrix factorization analysis using 178 genes, which were extracted as stage-specific genes, 35 advanced-stage cases were classified into two subclasses with superior (n = 17) and poor  (n = 18) outcome evaluated by progression-free survival (logrank test, p = 0.03). Of the 178 stage-specific genes, 112 genes were identified as showing different expression between the two subclasses. Of the 48 genes selected for biological function by Gene Ontology analysis or Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, 5 genes (ZEB2, CDH1, LTBP2, COL16A1 and ACTA2) were extracted as candidates for prognostic factors associated with progression-free survival. The relationship between high ZEB2 or low CDH1 expression and shorter progression-free survival was validated by real-time RT-PCR experiments of 37 independent advanced-stage cancer samples. ZEB2 expression was negatively correlated with CDH1 expression in advanced-stage samples, whereas ZEB2 knockdown in ovarian adenocarcinoma SKOV3 cells resulted in an increase in CDH1 expression. Multivariate analysis showed that high ZEB2 expression was independently associated with poor prognosis. Furthermore, the prognostic effect of E-cadherin encoded by CDH1 was verified using immunohistochemical analysis of an independent advanced-stage cancer samples set (n = 74). These findings suggest that the expressions of epithelial-mesenchymal transition-related genes such as ZEB2 and CDH1 may play important roles in the invasion process of advanced-stage serous ovarian cancer."'
GSE12494-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Neuroblastoma in advanced stages is among the most intractable pediatric cancers, even with the recent therapeutic advances. Neruroblastoma harbours a variety of genetic changes, including a high frequency of MYCN amplification, loss of heterozygosity in 1p36 and 11q, and gain of genetic material from 17q, all of which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma. However, the scarcity of reliable molecular targets has hampered the development of effective therapeutic agents targeting neuroblastoma. We performed a genome-wide analysis of a large number of neuroblastoma samples, consisting of varying disease stages, permitted us to obtain a comprehensive registry of genomic lesions in neuroblastoma."'
GSE12494-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Neuroblastoma in advanced stages is among the most intractable pediatric cancers, even with the recent therapeutic advances. Neruroblastoma harbours a variety of genetic changes, including a high frequency of MYCN amplification, loss of heterozygosity in 1p36 and 11q, and gain of genetic material from 17q, all of which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma. However, the scarcity of reliable molecular targets has hampered the development of effective therapeutic agents targeting neuroblastoma. We performed a genome-wide analysis of a large number of neuroblastoma samples, consisting of varying disease stages, permitted us to obtain a comprehensive registry of genomic lesions in neuroblastoma."'
GSE12494-GPL3718_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Neuroblastoma in advanced stages is among the most intractable pediatric cancers, even with the recent therapeutic advances. Neruroblastoma harbours a variety of genetic changes, including a high frequency of MYCN amplification, loss of heterozygosity in 1p36 and 11q, and gain of genetic material from 17q, all of which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma. However, the scarcity of reliable molecular targets has hampered the development of effective therapeutic agents targeting neuroblastoma. We performed a genome-wide analysis of a large number of neuroblastoma samples, consisting of varying disease stages, permitted us to obtain a comprehensive registry of genomic lesions in neuroblastoma."'
GSE12543-GPL7031_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Profiles and ChIP on chip experiments with dl1500 virus (expressing WT small e1a), R2G and deltaCR2 mutant viruses"'
GSE12543-GPL7032_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Profiles and ChIP on chip experiments with dl1500 virus (expressing WT small e1a), R2G and deltaCR2 mutant viruses"'
GSE12553_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"In three different ts-LT keratinocyte lines, TP53 was downregulated in four different ways. The vector constructs used for p53 abrogation were pWZL-p53DN-hygro (encoding the human p53 dominant-negative mutant Arg(175)His, pRS-p53shRNA-puro (containing a short hairpin RNA specific for p53), LZRS-E6-GFP (containing the HPV16-E6 oncogene) and the pRetrosuper miR-372. (containing the MicroRNA 372). Cells were transduced at 32°C as described above and checked for transduction efficiency by using an LZRS-GFP control. Only for miR-372 transduction efficiency showed to be below 90% and necessitated selection of positive cells by 1% blasticidin treatment for 5 days. Cells were harvested synchronously after two week culturing at 39°C."'
GSE12553_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_overall_design	"After RNA isolation, for each sample, two aliquots of 500ng of RNA were linearly amplified and fluorescently labeled with either Cy3-CTP or Cy5-CTP with the Agilent Low RNA Input Fluorescent Linear Amplification Kit (Agilent Technologies, Amstelveen, The Netherlands). Equal amounts (1µg) of Cy3-CTP and Cy5-CTP labeled samples were hybridized to Agilent 4x44K Whole Human Genome arrays (Agilent Technologies) according to the manufacturer. The sample set-up on the 4x44K array was chosen in such a way that all variables (cell lines and treatments) were on each array in dye swab and in duplicate on a different array. Equal amounts (1µg) of Cy3-CTP and Cy5-CTP labeled samples were hybridized to Agilent 44K Whole Human Genome arrays (Agilent Technologies, Part Number G4112A) according to manufacturer's instructions. Microarrays were scanned using an Agilent DNA Microarray Scanner, and scans were quantified using Agilent Feature Extraction software (version 8.5.1). Raw expression data generated by the Feature Extraction software was imported into R using the LIMMA package in Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org). As overall background levels were very low, no background correction was performed. The intensity distributions within and between arrays were normalized using the quantile scaling algorithm in LIMMA. After normalization, the separate intensity channels were extracted from the ratio measurements and combined to the intensities of the reference. We assumed that overexpression of dominant-negative mutant p53, viral oncogene E6 and miR372 would have increased activity versus shRNA inactivation, and therefore analyzed all by expression profiling using the shRNA manipulated cells as reference."'
GSE12553_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"After RNA isolation, for each sample, two aliquots of 500ng of RNA were linearly amplified and fluorescently labeled with either Cy3-CTP or Cy5-CTP with the Agilent Low RNA Input Fluorescent Linear Amplification Kit (Agilent Technologies, Amstelveen, The Netherlands). Equal amounts (1µg) of Cy3-CTP and Cy5-CTP labeled samples were hybridized to Agilent 4x44K Whole Human Genome arrays (Agilent Technologies) according to the manufacturer. The sample set-up on the 4x44K array was chosen in such a way that all variables (cell lines and treatments) were on each array in dye swab and in duplicate on a different array. Equal amounts (1µg) of Cy3-CTP and Cy5-CTP labeled samples were hybridized to Agilent 44K Whole Human Genome arrays (Agilent Technologies, Part Number G4112A) according to manufacturer's instructions. Microarrays were scanned using an Agilent DNA Microarray Scanner, and scans were quantified using Agilent Feature Extraction software (version 8.5.1). Raw expression data generated by the Feature Extraction software was imported into R using the LIMMA package in Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org). As overall background levels were very low, no background correction was performed. The intensity distributions within and between arrays were normalized using the quantile scaling algorithm in LIMMA. After normalization, the separate intensity channels were extracted from the ratio measurements and combined to the intensities of the reference. We assumed that overexpression of dominant-negative mutant p53, viral oncogene E6 and miR372 would have increased activity versus shRNA inactivation, and therefore analyzed all by expression profiling using the shRNA manipulated cells as reference."'
GSE12593_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"DNA copy number analysis of myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcomas, and related lesions, using 32k BAC array CGH. All four cases analyzed with array CGH showed amplification of the region 86.30-87.74 Mb in 3p11.1-12.1. No additional aberration was detected in more than two tumors, except for the deletion distal to the amplification on chromosome 3. Case 1 showed deletion affecting the region from the centromere of chromosome 1 to the 5'-end of TGFBR3. Homozygous deletion was found in one case (case 6) affecting the region 21.08-22.15 Mb on chromosome arm 9p harboring the CDKN2A and CDKN2B genes."'
GSE12597_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Abstract from publication: HIV-1 infection is associated with B-cell abnormalities such as hypergammaglobulinemia, poor immunisation responses and loss of serological memory. To determine whether altered expression of chemokine receptors and their ligands may play a role in B-cell dysfunctions during HIV-1 infection, the expression of CXCR4, CXCR5 and CCR7 receptors and their respective ligands on CD19+ B-cells were examined in HIV-1 infected patients and controls. We report a decreased CXCR5 expression on B-cells from patients (p<0.05), a phenomenon associated with a low CD4 T-cell count (<350 cells/µl). Interestingly, an increased expression of CXCL13, the ligand for CXCR5, was found in peripheral B-cells from HIV-1 infected patients. Moreover upon B-cell activation in vitro, CXCL13 was secreted in culture. In addition, CXCL13 positive B-cells were also found in the lymph nodes of HIV-1 infected patients, but not in control tissue. B-cell migration towards CXCL13, CXCL12 and CCL21, ligands for CXCR5, CXCR4 and CCR7, was also evaluated. In patients with a low CD4 Tcell count, migration towards all ligands was increased. Our findings indicate that altered expression of the chemokine receptor-ligand pair, CXCR5/CXCL13 may participate in the establishment of B-cell dysfunctions during HIV-1 infection."'
GSE12611_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"A plethora of research has focused on the human embryonic stem cells (hESC) ever since they were first reported mainly due to their distinct features of self renewal and pluripotency. Probing of the hESC transcriptome using global expression profiling tools such as DNA microarray, Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE), Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing (MPSS) and Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) analysis have contributed significantly in our current understanding of hESCs. In fact, a large number of markers to assess the pluripotent and differentiation status of hESCs have been presented by such studies. However, till date clarity is lacking in identifying a robust set of markers to assess the true state of the hESCs. In this paper, we report the generation of long SAGE libraries for partially differentiated and differentiated HES3 along with a deeper profiling of our previously reported HES3 undifferentiated library. Clustering analysis of these libraries in concert with long and short SAGE libraries available in public databases using Hierarchical Cluster Analysis (HCA) as well as a poison-based approach helped in identification of expression patterns distinct from those reported for the well established pluriptency/differentiation markers. Almost all the previous studies reporting a robust set of markers have focused on a gene by gene comparison in listing out the upregulated and downregulated genes rather than look at the expression patterns in establishing a list of markers. In this analysis, however, we report a new set of markers as well as add confidence to some previously reported markers based on their novel expression patterns as identified by SAGE analysis and also confirm it by real-time PCR analysis. For the real-time PCR confirmation, instead of taking two extreme data sets such as undifferentiated and a late stage embryoid body, we profiled a time series of embryoid body stages so that we could identify those genes which show a dramatic increase or decrease upon differentiation and hence would serve as more reliable markers. "'
GSE12624_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"FINDINGS: The transcriptome analysis from peripheral blood revealed a strong host response upon severe injury and demonstrated the suitability of whole blood in the PaxGene system as a surrogate marker in clinical gene expression studies. It was evident that patients who developed sepsis in the course of the disease (3-5 days after admission) showed an imbalance in the TH1/TH2 response towards a pronounced TH2 response, soon after trauma. The imbalanced TH1/TH2 shift along with inactivation of T cells, neutrophils, monocytes and macrophages might be critical factors for the initiation of a septic program seen in these patients 12 hours after trauma."'
GSE12641-GPL2040_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The translocation t(15;17) generates the chimeric PML-RARα transcription factor that is the initiating event of acute promyelocytic leukemia. A global view of PML-RARα transcriptional functions was obtained by genome-wide binding and chromatin modification analyses, combined with genome wide expression data. ChIP-chip experiments identified 372 direct genomic PML-RARα targets. A subset of these was confirmed in primary acute promyelocytic leukemia. Direct PML-RARá targets include regulators of global transcriptional programs as well as critical regulatory genes for basic cellular functions such as cell cycle control and apoptosis. PML-RARα binding universally led to HDAC1 recruitment, loss of histone H3 acetylation, increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 9 and unexpectedly increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 4. The binding of PMLRARα to target promoters and the resulting histone modifications resulted in mRNA repression of functionally relevant genes. Taken together our results reveal that the transcription factor PML-RARα regulates key cancer related genes and pathways by inducing a repressed chromatin formation on its direct genomic target genes."'
GSE12641-GPL6441_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The translocation t(15;17) generates the chimeric PML-RARα transcription factor that is the initiating event of acute promyelocytic leukemia. A global view of PML-RARα transcriptional functions was obtained by genome-wide binding and chromatin modification analyses, combined with genome wide expression data. ChIP-chip experiments identified 372 direct genomic PML-RARα targets. A subset of these was confirmed in primary acute promyelocytic leukemia. Direct PML-RARá targets include regulators of global transcriptional programs as well as critical regulatory genes for basic cellular functions such as cell cycle control and apoptosis. PML-RARα binding universally led to HDAC1 recruitment, loss of histone H3 acetylation, increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 9 and unexpectedly increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 4. The binding of PMLRARα to target promoters and the resulting histone modifications resulted in mRNA repression of functionally relevant genes. Taken together our results reveal that the transcription factor PML-RARα regulates key cancer related genes and pathways by inducing a repressed chromatin formation on its direct genomic target genes."'
GSE12641-GPL6442_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The translocation t(15;17) generates the chimeric PML-RARα transcription factor that is the initiating event of acute promyelocytic leukemia. A global view of PML-RARα transcriptional functions was obtained by genome-wide binding and chromatin modification analyses, combined with genome wide expression data. ChIP-chip experiments identified 372 direct genomic PML-RARα targets. A subset of these was confirmed in primary acute promyelocytic leukemia. Direct PML-RARá targets include regulators of global transcriptional programs as well as critical regulatory genes for basic cellular functions such as cell cycle control and apoptosis. PML-RARα binding universally led to HDAC1 recruitment, loss of histone H3 acetylation, increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 9 and unexpectedly increased tri-methylation of histone H3 lysine 4. The binding of PMLRARα to target promoters and the resulting histone modifications resulted in mRNA repression of functionally relevant genes. Taken together our results reveal that the transcription factor PML-RARα regulates key cancer related genes and pathways by inducing a repressed chromatin formation on its direct genomic target genes."'
GSE12653_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Peripheral blood cells in patients with rheumatoid arthritis before/after IL-6 inhibition"'
GSE12664_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Analysis of wild-type and C mutant human HPIV1 and interferon beta treatment in human respiratory epithelial A549 cells"'
GSE12664_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"HPIV1 is an important respiratory pathogen in children and the most common cause of viral croup. We performed a microarray-based analysis of gene expression kinetics to examine how wild-type (wt) HPIV1 infection altered gene expression in human respiratory epithelial cells and what role IFN-beta played in this response. We similarly evaluated HPIV1-P(C-), a highly attenuated and apoptosis-inducing virus that does not express any of the four C proteins, and HPIV1-C(F170S), a less attenuated mutant that contains a single point mutation in C and, like wt HPIV1, does not efficiently induce apoptosis, to examine the role of the C proteins in controlling host gene expression. We also used this data to investigate whether the phenotypic differences between the two C mutants could be explained at the transcriptional level. Mutation or deletion of the C proteins of HPIV1 permitted the activation of over 2000 cellular genes that otherwise would be repressed by HPIV1 infection. Thus, the C proteins profoundly suppress the response of human respiratory cells to HPIV1 infection. Cellular pathways targeted by the HPIV1 C proteins were identified and their transcriptional control was analyzed using bioinformatics. Transcription factor binding sites for IRF and NF-kappaB were over-represented in some of the C protein targeted pathways, but other pathways were dominated by less known factors such as forkhead transcription factor FOXD1. Surprisingly, the host response to the C knockout and C(F170S) mutants was very similar, and thus the phenotypic differences between these two viruses could not be explained at the host cell transcriptional level."'
GSE12664_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"HPIV1 is an important respiratory pathogen in children and the most common cause of viral croup. We performed a microarray-based analysis of gene expression kinetics to examine how wild-type (wt) HPIV1 infection altered gene expression in human respiratory epithelial cells and what role IFN-beta played in this response. We similarly evaluated HPIV1-P(C-), a highly attenuated and apoptosis-inducing virus that does not express any of the four C proteins, and HPIV1-C(F170S), a less attenuated mutant that contains a single point mutation in C and, like wt HPIV1, does not efficiently induce apoptosis, to examine the role of the C proteins in controlling host gene expression. We also used this data to investigate whether the phenotypic differences between the two C mutants could be explained at the transcriptional level. Mutation or deletion of the C proteins of HPIV1 permitted the activation of over 2000 cellular genes that otherwise would be repressed by HPIV1 infection. Thus, the C proteins profoundly suppress the response of human respiratory cells to HPIV1 infection. Cellular pathways targeted by the HPIV1 C proteins were identified and their transcriptional control was analyzed using bioinformatics. Transcription factor binding sites for IRF and NF-kappaB were over-represented in some of the C protein targeted pathways, but other pathways were dominated by less known factors such as forkhead transcription factor FOXD1. Surprisingly, the host response to the C knockout and C(F170S) mutants was very similar, and thus the phenotypic differences between these two viruses could not be explained at the host cell transcriptional level."'
GSE12664_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"HPIV1 is an important respiratory pathogen in children and the most common cause of viral croup. We performed a microarray-based analysis of gene expression kinetics to examine how wild-type (wt) HPIV1 infection altered gene expression in human respiratory epithelial cells and what role IFN-beta played in this response. We similarly evaluated HPIV1-P(C-), a highly attenuated and apoptosis-inducing virus that does not express any of the four C proteins, and HPIV1-C(F170S), a less attenuated mutant that contains a single point mutation in C and, like wt HPIV1, does not efficiently induce apoptosis, to examine the role of the C proteins in controlling host gene expression. We also used this data to investigate whether the phenotypic differences between the two C mutants could be explained at the transcriptional level. Mutation or deletion of the C proteins of HPIV1 permitted the activation of over 2000 cellular genes that otherwise would be repressed by HPIV1 infection. Thus, the C proteins profoundly suppress the response of human respiratory cells to HPIV1 infection. Cellular pathways targeted by the HPIV1 C proteins were identified and their transcriptional control was analyzed using bioinformatics. Transcription factor binding sites for IRF and NF-kappaB were over-represented in some of the C protein targeted pathways, but other pathways were dominated by less known factors such as forkhead transcription factor FOXD1. Surprisingly, the host response to the C knockout and C(F170S) mutants was very similar, and thus the phenotypic differences between these two viruses could not be explained at the host cell transcriptional level."'
GSE12668-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia (WM) is a distinct clinicobiological entity defined as a B-cell neoplasm characterized by a lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate in the bone marrow and immunoglobulin M paraprotein production.  Cytogenetic analysis is limited by the difficulty in obtaining tumor metaphases and the genetic basis of the disease remains poorly defined.  We performed a comprehensive analysis in 42 WM patients by using high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization with the Human Genome 244A microarray.  Overall, 83% of samples have chromosomal abnormalities, with a median of three abnormalities per patient (range 0 to 27).  The most common abnormality was 6q deletion (40%) and four non-overlapped minimal deleted regions (MDR) were identified.  Gain of 6p was the second most common abnormality (17%) and its presence was always concomitant with 6q loss.  An interstitial MDR was delineated at 13q14 including MIRN15A and MIRN16-1 in 10% of patients.  Other recurrent deletions were 7q22, 8p, 11q22-q23, 11q23-q24 and 17p11-p13 (7% each).  Copy gains were identified in chromosomes 18 (17%), 4 (12%), 3 (10%), 8q (10%) and Xq27.1-q28 (10%).  To note, we reported biallelic deletions and/or inactivating mutations with uniparental disomy in TRAF3 and TNFAIP3, two negative regulators of the NF-kB signaling pathway.  Furthermore, we confirmed the association between TRAF3 inactivation and increased transcriptional activity of NF-kB target genes.  Mutational activation of the NF-kB pathway, which is normally activated by ligand-receptor interactions within the bone marrow microenvironment, highlight its biologic importance, and suggest a therapeutic role for inhibitors of NF-KB pathway activation in the treatment of Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia."'
GSE12668-GPL96_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia (WM) is a distinct clinicobiological entity defined as a B-cell neoplasm characterized by a lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate in the bone marrow and immunoglobulin M paraprotein production.  Cytogenetic analysis is limited by the difficulty in obtaining tumor metaphases and the genetic basis of the disease remains poorly defined.  We performed a comprehensive analysis in 42 WM patients by using high-resolution array-based comparative genomic hybridization with the Human Genome 244A microarray.  Overall, 83% of samples have chromosomal abnormalities, with a median of three abnormalities per patient (range 0 to 27).  The most common abnormality was 6q deletion (40%) and four non-overlapped minimal deleted regions (MDR) were identified.  Gain of 6p was the second most common abnormality (17%) and its presence was always concomitant with 6q loss.  An interstitial MDR was delineated at 13q14 including MIRN15A and MIRN16-1 in 10% of patients.  Other recurrent deletions were 7q22, 8p, 11q22-q23, 11q23-q24 and 17p11-p13 (7% each).  Copy gains were identified in chromosomes 18 (17%), 4 (12%), 3 (10%), 8q (10%) and Xq27.1-q28 (10%).  To note, we reported biallelic deletions and/or inactivating mutations with uniparental disomy in TRAF3 and TNFAIP3, two negative regulators of the NF-kB signaling pathway.  Furthermore, we confirmed the association between TRAF3 inactivation and increased transcriptional activity of NF-kB target genes.  Mutational activation of the NF-kB pathway, which is normally activated by ligand-receptor interactions within the bone marrow microenvironment, highlight its biologic importance, and suggest a therapeutic role for inhibitors of NF-KB pathway activation in the treatment of Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia."'
GSE12692_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Ewing Tumors (ET) are highly malignant tumors, localized in bone or soft tissue and are molecularly defined by ews/ets translocations. We identified histone methyl-transferase Enhancer of Zeste, Drosophila, Homolog 2 (EZH2) to be increased in ET. EZH2’s suppressive activity maintains stemness in normal and malignant cells. Here we found EZH2 to be upregulated by the pathognomonic fusion oncogene EWS-FLI1 in ET and mesenchymal stem cells. Downregulation of EZH2 by RNA interference in ET suppressed oncogenic transformation by inhibiting clonogenicity in vitro. Similarly, tumor development and metastasis in immunodeficient Rag2-/-γC-/- mice was suppressed. EZH2-mediated gene silencing was shown to be dependent on histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity. Subsequent microarray analysis of EZH2 knock down, HDAC-inhibitor treatment and confirmation in independent assays revealed an undifferentiated phenotype maintained by EZH2 in ET. Downregulation of EZH2 decreased histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) at target loci. EZH2 regulated stemness genes such as nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) as well as genes involved in neuroectodermal differentiation (EMP1, EPHB2, GFAP, GAP43). These data suggest that EZH2 might play a central role in Ewing Tumor pathology shaping the oncogenicity and stem cell phenotype of this tumor presumably by epigenetic regulation."'
GSE12696_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Apoptosis plays a pivotal role in embryogenesis and postnatal cell homeostasis, involving DNA or subcellular fragmentation, and shedding of small membranous microvesicles termed apoptotic bodies (AB). Following DNA damage, hypoxia, or vascular injury, the chemokine CXCL12 has been implicated in the recruitment of progenitor cells for tissue regeneration through its receptor CXCR4 and in mechanisms counteracting apoptosis. Whether AB deliver alarm signals for regenerative responses to neighbouring cells beyond recruitment or eat-me signals for phagocytes and relevance to diseases with abundant apoptosis, eg atherosclerosis, remains unknown. Here we show that endothelial cell-derived AB are generated during diet-induced atherosclerosis and can be transferred to recipient endothelial or smooth muscle cells to induce functional expression of CXCL12. This is mediated through miRNA-126 enriched in AB, which acts by silencing RGS16 translation and unlocking CXCR4 to unleash an auto-regulatory feedback loop inducing CXCL12. Injection of AB promoted mobilization and incorporation of progenitor cells, reducing diet-induced atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice, and local transfer of microRNA-126 inhibited collar-induced arterial plaque formation. This was associated with increased smooth muscle content but decreased macrophage and apoptotic cell content, all features of plaque stability. Our data identify a new mechanism, by which AB confer microRNA-126 as a paracrine alarm messenger to enhance CXCR4 signals and CXCL12 expression, thereby limiting or repairing vascular damage. This adds to the important functions of microRNAs in health and disease and may extend to progenitor cell recruitment during other forms of tissue repair or homeostasis. "'
GSE12696_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Apoptosis plays a pivotal role in embryogenesis and postnatal cell homeostasis, involving DNA or subcellular fragmentation, and shedding of small membranous microvesicles termed apoptotic bodies (AB). Following DNA damage, hypoxia, or vascular injury, the chemokine CXCL12 has been implicated in the recruitment of progenitor cells for tissue regeneration through its receptor CXCR4 and in mechanisms counteracting apoptosis. Whether AB deliver alarm signals for regenerative responses to neighbouring cells beyond recruitment or eat-me signals for phagocytes and relevance to diseases with abundant apoptosis, eg atherosclerosis, remains unknown. Here we show that endothelial cell-derived AB are generated during diet-induced atherosclerosis and can be transferred to recipient endothelial or smooth muscle cells to induce functional expression of CXCL12. This is mediated through miRNA-126 enriched in AB, which acts by silencing RGS16 translation and unlocking CXCR4 to unleash an auto-regulatory feedback loop inducing CXCL12. Injection of AB promoted mobilization and incorporation of progenitor cells, reducing diet-induced atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice, and local transfer of microRNA-126 inhibited collar-induced arterial plaque formation. This was associated with increased smooth muscle content but decreased macrophage and apoptotic cell content, all features of plaque stability. Our data identify a new mechanism, by which AB confer microRNA-126 as a paracrine alarm messenger to enhance CXCR4 signals and CXCL12 expression, thereby limiting or repairing vascular damage. This adds to the important functions of microRNAs in health and disease and may extend to progenitor cell recruitment during other forms of tissue repair or homeostasis. "'
GSE12708_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"One-third of all ER+ breast tumors treated with endocrine therapy fail to respond, and the remainder are likely to relapse in the future.  Almost all data on endocrine resistance has been obtained in models of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). However, invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC) comprise up to 15% of newly diagnosed invasive breast cancers diagnosed each year and, while the incidence of IDC has remained relatively constant during the last 20 years, the prevalence of ILC continues to increase among postmenopausal women.  We report a new model of Tamoxifen (TAM)-resistant invasive lobular breast carcinoma cells that provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of endocrine resistance.  SUM44 cells express ER and are sensitive to the growth inhibitory effects of antiestrogens.  Selection for resistance to 4-hydroxytamoxifen led to the development of the SUM44/LCCTam cell line, which exhibits decreased expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) and increased expression of the estrogen-related receptor gamma (ERRγ).  Knockdown of ERRγ in SUM44/LCCTam cells by siRNA restores TAM sensitivity, and overexpression of ERRγ blocks the growth-inhibitory effects of TAM in SUM44 and MDA-MB-134 VI lobular breast cancer cells.  ERRγ-driven transcription is also increased in SUM44/LCCTam, and inhibition of activator protein 1 (AP1) can restore or enhance TAM sensitivity.  These data support a role for ERRγ/AP1 signaling in the development of TAM resistance, and suggest that expression of ERRγ may be a marker of poor Tamoxifen response. "'
GSE12731_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Highly specific amplification of complex DNA pools without bias or template-independent products (TIPs) remains a challenge. We have developed a procedure using phi29 DNA polymerase and trehalose and optimized control of amplification to create micrograms of specific amplicons without TIPs from down to sub-femtograms of DNA. The amplicons from 5 ng and 0.5 ng DNA, which were from originally good quality of gDNA (05-050), or partially degraded gDNA (04-018), faithfully demonstrated all previously known heterozygous segmental duplications and deletions (3 Mb to 18 kb) located on chromosome 22 and even a homozygous deletion smaller than 1 kb with high resolution chromosome-wide CGH. Specifically, HR-CGH with 5 ng-input gDNA-derived amplicon detected all previously known chromosomal segmental aberrations in chromosome 22 in samples from two different probands, and was indistinguishable from the HR-CGH result with native gDNA from the same probands (Fig. 4, Fig. S3 and S4). The break points were also precisely demonstrated. These include a heterozygous genomic segmental duplication (3 copies, 3 Mb in size, sample 05-050, Fig. 4) and 2 different heterozygous deletions (1 copy, 1.4 Mb and 18 kb respectively, sample 04-018, Fig. S4), all of which are located in or bounded by regions of low copy repeats (LCRs). In addition, a previous known homozygous deletion of 975 bp (in 04-018 and 05-050) was again accurately demonstrated (05-050 data showed in Fig. 4c), although sometimes (04-018) the data was a little noisier than with unamplified DNA (Fig. S4d). In contrast, the Wpa-40oC resulted in abundant signal noise and failed in detection of these copy number aberrations (Fig. 4, Fig. S3, S4). Impressively, HR-CGH with 0.5 ng gDNA-derived amplicons via Wpa also clearly detected the known CNVs, although noisier (Fig. S4). The 0.1ng gDNA derived amplicons via Wpa could not unambiguously show CNVs because of higher variability of signals, but the CNVs’ patterns were mostly well maintained (Fig. S4 for 04-018). We did also notice some locus-imbalance in the amplicon, however this was minimized, and was reproducible when the input was above a certain threshold amount, and it could be well compensated if the same amplified reference sample was applied in parallel as showed above.  "'
GSE12759-GPL4723_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The amplification event occurring at chromosome locus 11q13, reported in several different cancers, includes a number of potential oncogenes. We have previously reported amplification of one such oncogene, CCND1, to be correlated with an adverse effect of tamoxifen in premenopausal breast cancer patients. Overexpression of cyclin D1 protein however, confers tamoxifen resistance but not a tamoxifen induced adverse effect. Potentially, co-amplification of an additional 11q13 gene, with a resulting protein overexpression, is required to cause an agonistic effect. Moreover, during 11q13 amplification a deletion of the distal 11q region has been described. In order to assess the potential impact of the deletion we have examined a selected marker for this event. Methods: Array CGH analysis was employed to identify and confirm changes in the gene expression of a number of different genes mapping to the 11q chromosomal region, associated with CCND1 amplification. The subsequent protein expression of these candidate genes was then examined in a clinical material of 500 primary breast cancers from premenopausal patients randomized to either tamoxifen or no adjuvant treatment. The protein expression was also compared to the CGH data in a subset of 56 breast cancer samples. Results: Cortactin and FADD overexpression was linked to CCND1 amplification, determined by FISH, but was not associated with a diminished effect of tamoxifen. However, deletion of distal chromosome 11q, defined as downregulation of the marker Chk1, was associated with an impaired tamoxifen response, and interestingly, also with low proliferative breast cancer of low grade. For Pak1 and cyclin D1 the protein expression corresponded to the gene expression data from the CGH analysis. Conclusions: The results indicate that many 11q13 associated gene products are overexpressed in conjunction with cyclin D1 but not linked to an agonistic effect of tamoxifen. Finally, the deletion of distal 11q, linked to 11q13 amplification, might be an important event affecting breast cancer outcome and tamoxifen response."'
GSE12759-GPL7247_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Background: The amplification event occurring at chromosome locus 11q13, reported in several different cancers, includes a number of potential oncogenes. We have previously reported amplification of one such oncogene, CCND1, to be correlated with an adverse effect of tamoxifen in premenopausal breast cancer patients. Overexpression of cyclin D1 protein however, confers tamoxifen resistance but not a tamoxifen induced adverse effect. Potentially, co-amplification of an additional 11q13 gene, with a resulting protein overexpression, is required to cause an agonistic effect. Moreover, during 11q13 amplification a deletion of the distal 11q region has been described. In order to assess the potential impact of the deletion we have examined a selected marker for this event. Methods: Array CGH analysis was employed to identify and confirm changes in the gene expression of a number of different genes mapping to the 11q chromosomal region, associated with CCND1 amplification. The subsequent protein expression of these candidate genes was then examined in a clinical material of 500 primary breast cancers from premenopausal patients randomized to either tamoxifen or no adjuvant treatment. The protein expression was also compared to the CGH data in a subset of 56 breast cancer samples. Results: Cortactin and FADD overexpression was linked to CCND1 amplification, determined by FISH, but was not associated with a diminished effect of tamoxifen. However, deletion of distal chromosome 11q, defined as downregulation of the marker Chk1, was associated with an impaired tamoxifen response, and interestingly, also with low proliferative breast cancer of low grade. For Pak1 and cyclin D1 the protein expression corresponded to the gene expression data from the CGH analysis. Conclusions: The results indicate that many 11q13 associated gene products are overexpressed in conjunction with cyclin D1 but not linked to an agonistic effect of tamoxifen. Finally, the deletion of distal 11q, linked to 11q13 amplification, might be an important event affecting breast cancer outcome and tamoxifen response."'
GSE12762_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"4-Hydroxynonenal (HNE), a cytotoxic and diffusible electrophile generated by the spontaneous decomposition of oxidized lipids, has a suspected role in neurodegenerative and inflammatory disease processes. In addition to promoting cell death, elevated levels of HNE lead to the engagement of cytoprotective signaling pathways, including the heat shock, antioxidant, DNA damage, and ER stress responses. Activation of the heat shock response, mediated by the transcription factor heat shock factor 1 (HSF1), is critical for maintaining cellular viability in the presence of HNE. Accordingly, silencing HSF1 expression using siRNA enhances the toxicity of HNE. Microarray analysis of samples from control and HSF1-silenced cells was performed to investigate which associated changes in gene could be responsible for the decrease in cellular viability."'
GSE12764_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'null' in '!Series_summary	"MCF10A cells were then transfected with MEK1(S217S221), HRAS(G12V), and null control vectors"'
GSE12811_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL6322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL7321_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL7322_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL7323_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL7324_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12813-GPL7325_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Summary: Breast cancer exhibits clinical and molecular heterogeneity, where expression-profiling studies have identified five major molecular subtypes.  The basal-like subtype, expressing basal epithelial markers and negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2, is associated with higher overall levels of DNA copy number alteration (CNA), specific CNAs (like gain on chromosome 10p), and poor prognosis.  Discovering the molecular genetic basis of tumor subtypes may provide new opportunities for therapy.  To identify the driver oncogene on 10p associated with basal-like tumors, we analyzed genomic profiles of 172 breast carcinomas.  The smallest shared region of gain spanned just seven genes at 10p13, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ID (CAMK1D), functioning in intracellular signaling but not previously linked to cancer.  By microarray, CAMK1D was overexpressed when amplified, and by immunohistochemistry exhibited elevated expression in invasive carcinomas compared to carcinoma in situ.  Engineered overexpression of CAMK1D in non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells led to increased cell proliferation, and molecular and phenotypic alterations indicative of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including loss of cell-cell adhesions and increased cell migration and invasion.  Our findings identify CAMK1D as a novel amplified oncogene linked to EMT in breast cancer, and as a potential therapeutic target with particular relevance to clinically unfavorable basal-like tumors."'
GSE12814_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Uterine leiomyomata (UL), the most common neoplasm in reproductive-age women, have recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities including del(7)(q22q32).  To develop a molecular signature, matched del(7q) and non-del(7q) tumors identified by FISH or karyotyping from 11 women were profiled with expression arrays.  Our analysis using paired t-tests demonstrates this matched design is critical to eliminate confounding effects of genotype and environment that underlie patient variation.  A gene list ordered by genome-wide significance showed enrichment for the 7q22 target region.  Modification of the gene list by weighting each sample for percent of del(7q) cells to account for the mosaic nature of these tumors further enhanced the frequency of 7q22 genes.  Pathway analysis revealed two of the 19 significant functional networks were associated with development and the most represented pathway was protein ubiquitination, which can influence tumor development by stabilizing oncoproteins and destabilizing tumor suppressor proteins.  Array CGH (aCGH) studies determined the only consistent genomic imbalance was deletion of 9.5 megabases from 7q22-7q31.1.  Combining the aCGH data with the del(7q) UL mosacism-weighted expression analysis resulted in a list of genes that are commonly deleted and whose copy number is correlated with significantly decreased expression.  These genes include the proliferation inhibitor HPB1, the loss of expression of which has been associated with invasive breast cancer, as well as the mitosis integrity-maintenance tumor suppressor RINT1.  This study provides a molecular signature of the del(7q) UL subgroup and will serve as a platform for future studies of tumor pathogenesis. "'
GSE12814_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Uterine leiomyomata (UL), the most common neoplasm in reproductive-age women, have recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities including del(7)(q22q32).  To develop a molecular signature, matched del(7q) and non-del(7q) tumors identified by FISH or karyotyping from 11 women were profiled with expression arrays.  Our analysis using paired t-tests demonstrates this matched design is critical to eliminate confounding effects of genotype and environment that underlie patient variation.  A gene list ordered by genome-wide significance showed enrichment for the 7q22 target region.  Modification of the gene list by weighting each sample for percent of del(7q) cells to account for the mosaic nature of these tumors further enhanced the frequency of 7q22 genes.  Pathway analysis revealed two of the 19 significant functional networks were associated with development and the most represented pathway was protein ubiquitination, which can influence tumor development by stabilizing oncoproteins and destabilizing tumor suppressor proteins.  Array CGH (aCGH) studies determined the only consistent genomic imbalance was deletion of 9.5 megabases from 7q22-7q31.1.  Combining the aCGH data with the del(7q) UL mosacism-weighted expression analysis resulted in a list of genes that are commonly deleted and whose copy number is correlated with significantly decreased expression.  These genes include the proliferation inhibitor HPB1, the loss of expression of which has been associated with invasive breast cancer, as well as the mitosis integrity-maintenance tumor suppressor RINT1.  This study provides a molecular signature of the del(7q) UL subgroup and will serve as a platform for future studies of tumor pathogenesis. "'
GSE12846_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression profiles of lymphatic endothelial cells after knockdown of Prox1 and/or NR2F2"'
GSE12846_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Gene expression profiles of primary lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) isolated from human foreskin were analyzed after siRNA-mediated knockdown of control (firefly luciferase), Prox1, NR2F2 or Prox1/NR2F2 for 48 hours. "'
GSE12848_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Normal cell growth is governed by a complicated biological system, featuring multiple levels of control, often deregulated in cancers. The role of microRNAs in the control of gene expression is now increasingly appreciated, yet their involvement in controlling cell proliferation is still not well understood. Here we investigated the mammalian cell proliferation control network consisting of transcription regulators, E2F and p53, their targets, and a family of 14 microRNAs. Indicative of their significance, expression of these microRNAs is down-regulated in senescent cells and in breast cancers harboring wild-type p53. These microRNAs are repressed by p53 in an E2F1-mediated manner. Furthermore, we show that these microRNAs silence anti-proliferative genes, which themselves are E2F1 targets. Thus, microRNAs and transcriptional regulators appear to cooperate in the framework of a multi-gene transcriptional and post-transcriptional feed-forward loop. Finally, we show that, similarly to p53 inactivation, overexpression of representative microRNAs promotes proliferation and delays senescence, manifesting the detrimental phenotypic consequence of perturbations in this circuit. Together these findings position microRNAs as novel key players in the mammalian cellular proliferation network."'
GSE12865_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Gain or loss of genes and deregulation of gene expression can result in cumulative and progressive disruptions of normal cellular functions."'
GSE12868_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"ChIP-on-chip has emerged as a powerful tool to dissect the complex network of regulatory interactions between transcription factors and their targets. However, most ChIP-on-chip analysis methods use conservative approaches aimed to minimize false-positive transcription factor targets. We present a model with improved sensitivity in detecting binding events from ChIP-on-chip data. Its application to human T-cells, followed by extensive biochemical validation, reveals that three transcription factor oncogenes, NOTCH1, MYC, and HES1, bind to several thousands target gene promoters, up to an order of magnitude increase over conventional analysis methods. Gene expression profiling upon NOTCH1 inhibition shows broad-scale functional regulation across the entire range of predicted target genes, establishing a closer link between occupancy and regulation. Finally, the increased sensitivity reveals a combinatorial regulatory program in which MYC co-binds to virtually all NOTCH1-bound promoters. Overall, these results suggest an unappreciated complexity of transcriptional regulatory networks and highlight the fundamental importance of genome-scale analysis to represent transcriptional programs."'
GSE12868_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"T-ALL cell lines harboring activating mutations in NOTCH1 were treated with vehicle only (DMSO) or a highly active gamma-secretase inhibitor (COMPE, 100nM) for 72 hs and processed for gene expression profiling analysis. Gene expression signatures associated with inhibition of NOTCH1 signaling with CompE were correlated with findings on NOTCH1 direct target genes identified by ChIP-on-chip analysis."'
GSE12875_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Interaction of ICOS - ICOS ligand is required for the germinal center formation, T-cell immune responses, and development of autoimmune diseases.  Human ICOS deficiency with the identical ICOS mutation has been identified in nine patients worldwide.  In vitro studies showed T-cell defect of the patients was mild, and in vivo autoimmunity was uncommon and mild.  Here we report in-depth analysis of T-cell function in two siblings with novel ICOS deficiency.  While the brother displayed mild skin infections, psoriasis-like skin region, and defective immunoglobulin class switching, the sister had more severe symptoms, which included immunodeficiency, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial pneumonitis, and psoriasis.  Despite of normal CD3/CD28-induced proliferation and IL-2 production in vitro, peripheral blood T-cells from both patients demonstrated decreased percentage of CD4 central and effector memory T-cells and impaired production of Th1, Th2, and Th17 cytokines upon CD3/CD28 costimulation or upon PMA/ionophore stimulation.  The defective polarization into effector cells were associated with impaired induction of T-bet, GATA3 and MAF and RORC.  Reduced CTLA-4+CD45RO+ FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells and diminished induction of inhibitory cell surface molecules including CTLA-4 were also observed in the patients.  Further analysis of the gene expression and immune functions of the patients demonstrated increased induction of RANKL, lack of IFN-g response, and loss of Itch expression upon activation in the female case with autoimmunity.  Our study suggests extensive T-cell dysfunction and loss of balance between effector cells and regulatory cells in the ICOS-deficient patients may account for their immunodeficiency and/or autoimmune disorder."'
GSE12875_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Interaction of ICOS - ICOS ligand is required for the germinal center formation, T-cell immune responses, and development of autoimmune diseases.  Human ICOS deficiency with the identical ICOS mutation has been identified in nine patients worldwide.  In vitro studies showed T-cell defect of the patients was mild, and in vivo autoimmunity was uncommon and mild.  Here we report in-depth analysis of T-cell function in two siblings with novel ICOS deficiency.  While the brother displayed mild skin infections, psoriasis-like skin region, and defective immunoglobulin class switching, the sister had more severe symptoms, which included immunodeficiency, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial pneumonitis, and psoriasis.  Despite of normal CD3/CD28-induced proliferation and IL-2 production in vitro, peripheral blood T-cells from both patients demonstrated decreased percentage of CD4 central and effector memory T-cells and impaired production of Th1, Th2, and Th17 cytokines upon CD3/CD28 costimulation or upon PMA/ionophore stimulation.  The defective polarization into effector cells were associated with impaired induction of T-bet, GATA3 and MAF and RORC.  Reduced CTLA-4+CD45RO+ FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells and diminished induction of inhibitory cell surface molecules including CTLA-4 were also observed in the patients.  Further analysis of the gene expression and immune functions of the patients demonstrated increased induction of RANKL, lack of IFN-g response, and loss of Itch expression upon activation in the female case with autoimmunity.  Our study suggests extensive T-cell dysfunction and loss of balance between effector cells and regulatory cells in the ICOS-deficient patients may account for their immunodeficiency and/or autoimmune disorder."'
GSE12886_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Effect of the silencing of WT1 expression on HCC transcriptome"'
GSE12886_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The Wilms´ tumor 1 gene (WT1) encodes a transcription factor involved in cell growth and development. As we previously reported WT1 expression is hardly detectable in normal hepatic tissue but is induced in liver cirrhosis. Although WT1 has been found to be overexpressed in a number of malignancies, the role of WT1 in hepatocarcinogenesis has not been clarified. We found that WT1 is expressed in several human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines including PLC/PRF/5 and HepG2, and in HCC tumor tissue in 42% of patients. WT1 small interfering RNAs did not affect proliferation rate of HCC cells but abrogated their resistance to anoikis. Transcriptome analysis of PLC/PRF/5 cells after WT1 knockdown demonstrated upregulation of 251 genes and downregulation of 321. Ninety per cent of the former corresponded to metabolic genes mostly those characterizing the mature hepatocyte phenotype. On the contrary, genes that decreased upon WT1 inhibition were mainly related to defense against apoptosis, cell cycle and tumor progression. In agreement with these findings WT1 expression increased the resistance of liver tumor cells to doxorubicin, a compound used to treat HCC. Interestingly, doxorubicin strongly enhanced WT1 expression in both HCC cells and normal human hepatocytes. Among different chemotherapeutics, induction of WT1 transcription was restricted to topoisomerase 2 inhibitors. When WT1 expression was prohibited doxorubicin caused a marked increase in caspase-3 activation. In conclusion, WT1 is expressed in a substantial proportion of HCC contributing to tumor progression and resistance to chemotherapy, suggesting that WT1 may be an important target for HCC treatment."'
GSE12886_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The Wilms´ tumor 1 gene (WT1) encodes a transcription factor involved in cell growth and development. As we previously reported WT1 expression is hardly detectable in normal hepatic tissue but is induced in liver cirrhosis. Although WT1 has been found to be overexpressed in a number of malignancies, the role of WT1 in hepatocarcinogenesis has not been clarified. We found that WT1 is expressed in several human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines including PLC/PRF/5 and HepG2, and in HCC tumor tissue in 42% of patients. WT1 small interfering RNAs did not affect proliferation rate of HCC cells but abrogated their resistance to anoikis. Transcriptome analysis of PLC/PRF/5 cells after WT1 knockdown demonstrated upregulation of 251 genes and downregulation of 321. Ninety per cent of the former corresponded to metabolic genes mostly those characterizing the mature hepatocyte phenotype. On the contrary, genes that decreased upon WT1 inhibition were mainly related to defense against apoptosis, cell cycle and tumor progression. In agreement with these findings WT1 expression increased the resistance of liver tumor cells to doxorubicin, a compound used to treat HCC. Interestingly, doxorubicin strongly enhanced WT1 expression in both HCC cells and normal human hepatocytes. Among different chemotherapeutics, induction of WT1 transcription was restricted to topoisomerase 2 inhibitors. When WT1 expression was prohibited doxorubicin caused a marked increase in caspase-3 activation. In conclusion, WT1 is expressed in a substantial proportion of HCC contributing to tumor progression and resistance to chemotherapy, suggesting that WT1 may be an important target for HCC treatment."'
GSE12902-GPL13392_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Mycosis fungoides (MF), the most common cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), is a malignancy of mature, skin-homing T cells. Sézary syndrome (Sz) is often considered to represent a leukemic phase of MF. In this study the pattern of numerical chromosomal alterations in MF tumor samples was defined using array-based CGH; simultaneously gene expression was analyzed using microarrays. Highly recurrent chromosomal alterations in MF include copy number gain of 7q36, 7q21-7q22 and loss of 5q13 and 9p21. This pattern characteristic of MF differs markedly from chromosomal alterations observed in Sz. Integration of data from array-based CGH and gene expression analysis yielded several candidate genes with potential relevance in the pathogenesis of MF. We confirmed that the FASTK and SKAP1 genes, residing in loci with recurrent gain, demonstrated increased expression. The RB1 and DLEU1 tumor suppressor genes showed diminished expression associated with loss. In addition, it was found that presence of chromosomal alterations on 9p21, 8q24 and 1q21-1q22 was associated with poor prognosis in patients with MF. This study provides novel insight into genetic alterations underlying MF. Furthermore, our analysis uncovered genomic differences between MF and Sz, which suggest that the molecular pathogenesis and therefore therapeutic requirements of these CTCLs may be distinct."'
GSE12902-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Mycosis fungoides (MF), the most common cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), is a malignancy of mature, skin-homing T cells. Sézary syndrome (Sz) is often considered to represent a leukemic phase of MF. In this study the pattern of numerical chromosomal alterations in MF tumor samples was defined using array-based CGH; simultaneously gene expression was analyzed using microarrays. Highly recurrent chromosomal alterations in MF include copy number gain of 7q36, 7q21-7q22 and loss of 5q13 and 9p21. This pattern characteristic of MF differs markedly from chromosomal alterations observed in Sz. Integration of data from array-based CGH and gene expression analysis yielded several candidate genes with potential relevance in the pathogenesis of MF. We confirmed that the FASTK and SKAP1 genes, residing in loci with recurrent gain, demonstrated increased expression. The RB1 and DLEU1 tumor suppressor genes showed diminished expression associated with loss. In addition, it was found that presence of chromosomal alterations on 9p21, 8q24 and 1q21-1q22 was associated with poor prognosis in patients with MF. This study provides novel insight into genetic alterations underlying MF. Furthermore, our analysis uncovered genomic differences between MF and Sz, which suggest that the molecular pathogenesis and therefore therapeutic requirements of these CTCLs may be distinct."'
GSE12906-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) consists of different pathological entities that are frequently characterized by distinct genetic alterations. However, the knowledge on these genetic lesions in B-NHL is still limited. In order to obtain a more comprehensive view of genetic lesions in B-NHL, we performed genome-wide analysis of copy number (CN) alterations as well as allelic imbalances using Affymetrix SNP arrays with B-NHL cases, including SNP array data were analyzed with CNAG/AsCNAR software, which enabled sensitive detection of CN alterations in allele-specific manner, and thus allelic imbalances, without depending on availability of paired normal controls. Most frequent numerical abnormalities in B-NHL were gains of chromosomes 3 and 18, although gains of chromosome 3 were less prominent in FL. Chromosomal deletions that lead to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) were commonly found in 1p, 6q and 10q. High-grade amplifications and homozygous deletions frequently provide a clue to identify relevant gene targets. In our series, 12 loci of high-grade amplifications and 14 loci of homozygous deletions were identified, and helped to specify the candidate genes. These regions included, FCGR2B amplified in 5 cases of DLBCL, RERE amplified in 2 cases of FL and CDKN2A/CDKN2B deleted in 9 cases of DLBCL."'
GSE12906-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) consists of different pathological entities that are frequently characterized by distinct genetic alterations. However, the knowledge on these genetic lesions in B-NHL is still limited. In order to obtain a more comprehensive view of genetic lesions in B-NHL, we performed genome-wide analysis of copy number (CN) alterations as well as allelic imbalances using Affymetrix SNP arrays with B-NHL cases, including SNP array data were analyzed with CNAG/AsCNAR software, which enabled sensitive detection of CN alterations in allele-specific manner, and thus allelic imbalances, without depending on availability of paired normal controls. Most frequent numerical abnormalities in B-NHL were gains of chromosomes 3 and 18, although gains of chromosome 3 were less prominent in FL. Chromosomal deletions that lead to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) were commonly found in 1p, 6q and 10q. High-grade amplifications and homozygous deletions frequently provide a clue to identify relevant gene targets. In our series, 12 loci of high-grade amplifications and 14 loci of homozygous deletions were identified, and helped to specify the candidate genes. These regions included, FCGR2B amplified in 5 cases of DLBCL, RERE amplified in 2 cases of FL and CDKN2A/CDKN2B deleted in 9 cases of DLBCL."'
GSE12906-GPL3720_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) consists of different pathological entities that are frequently characterized by distinct genetic alterations. However, the knowledge on these genetic lesions in B-NHL is still limited. In order to obtain a more comprehensive view of genetic lesions in B-NHL, we performed genome-wide analysis of copy number (CN) alterations as well as allelic imbalances using Affymetrix SNP arrays with B-NHL cases, including SNP array data were analyzed with CNAG/AsCNAR software, which enabled sensitive detection of CN alterations in allele-specific manner, and thus allelic imbalances, without depending on availability of paired normal controls. Most frequent numerical abnormalities in B-NHL were gains of chromosomes 3 and 18, although gains of chromosome 3 were less prominent in FL. Chromosomal deletions that lead to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) were commonly found in 1p, 6q and 10q. High-grade amplifications and homozygous deletions frequently provide a clue to identify relevant gene targets. In our series, 12 loci of high-grade amplifications and 14 loci of homozygous deletions were identified, and helped to specify the candidate genes. These regions included, FCGR2B amplified in 5 cases of DLBCL, RERE amplified in 2 cases of FL and CDKN2A/CDKN2B deleted in 9 cases of DLBCL."'
GSE12917_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Rho family small GTPases serve as molecular switches in the regulation of diverse cellular functions including actin cytoskeleton remodeling, cell migration, gene transcription, and cell proliferation.  Importantly, Rho overexpression is frequently seen in many carcinomas. However, published studies have almost invariably utilized immortal or tumorigenic cell lines to study Rho GTPase functions and there are no studies on the potential of Rho small GTPase to overcome senescence checkpoints and induce preneoplastic transformation of human mammary epithelial cells (hMECs). We found that ectopic expression of wild-type RhoA as well as a constitutively-active RhoA mutant (G14V) in  primary hMEC strains led to their immortalization and preneoplastic transformation. Significantly, RhoA-T37A mutant,  known to be incapable of interacting with many well known Rho-effectors ,was also capable of immortalizing hMECs.Our results demonstrate that RhoA can induce the preneoplastic transformation of hMECs by altering multiple pathways linked cellular transformation and breast cancer."'
GSE12925-GPL7371_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is a major epigenetic modification important for regulating gene expression and suppressing spurious transcription. Most methods to scan the genome in different tissues for differentially methylated sites have focused on the methylation of CpGs in CpG islands, which are concentrations of CpGs often associated with gene promoters. Here, we use a methylation-profiling strategy that is predominantly responsive to methylation differences outside of CpG islands. The method compares the yield from two samples of size-selected fragments generated by a methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme. We profile eight different normal tissues relative to spleen for each of two human donors using a custom array of genomic clones covering the euchromatic portion of human chromosome 1 and representing 8% of the human genome. We observe gross regional differences in methylation states across chromosome 1 between tissues from the same individual, with the most striking differences detected in the comparison of cerebellum and spleen. Profiles of the same tissue from different donors are strikingly similar, as are the profiles of different lobes of the brain. Using DNMT1-deficient cells as a test case, we show that much finer-scale fluctuations in relative fragment yield can be detected when the methylation profiling is performed using a high-resolution oligomer array for chromosome 1. The varied patterns of methylation differences detected between tissues by this method reinforce the potential functional significance of regional differences in methylation levels outside of CpG islands."'
GSE12925-GPL7388_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation is a major epigenetic modification important for regulating gene expression and suppressing spurious transcription. Most methods to scan the genome in different tissues for differentially methylated sites have focused on the methylation of CpGs in CpG islands, which are concentrations of CpGs often associated with gene promoters. Here, we use a methylation-profiling strategy that is predominantly responsive to methylation differences outside of CpG islands. The method compares the yield from two samples of size-selected fragments generated by a methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme. We profile eight different normal tissues relative to spleen for each of two human donors using a custom array of genomic clones covering the euchromatic portion of human chromosome 1 and representing 8% of the human genome. We observe gross regional differences in methylation states across chromosome 1 between tissues from the same individual, with the most striking differences detected in the comparison of cerebellum and spleen. Profiles of the same tissue from different donors are strikingly similar, as are the profiles of different lobes of the brain. Using DNMT1-deficient cells as a test case, we show that much finer-scale fluctuations in relative fragment yield can be detected when the methylation profiling is performed using a high-resolution oligomer array for chromosome 1. The varied patterns of methylation differences detected between tissues by this method reinforce the potential functional significance of regional differences in methylation levels outside of CpG islands."'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"NMD inhibition fails to identify tumour suppressor genes in microsatellite stable gastric cancer cell lines "'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Results:  UPF1 expression was reduced for >70% and >80% in the GP202 and IPA220 gastric cancer cell lines, respectively. Integration of array CGH and microarray expression data provided a list of 134 and 50 candidate genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion for GP202 and IPA220, respectively. We selected 12 candidate genes for mutation analysis. Sequence analysis was performed on 11 genes. One gene, PLA2G4A, showed a silent mutation, and in two genes, CTSA and PTPRJ, missense mutations were detected. No nonsense mutations were detected in any of the 11 genes tested. "'
GSE12928-GPL4133_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Conclusions: Although UPF1 was substantially repressed, thus resulting in the inhibition of the NMD system, we did not find genes inactivated by nonsense mutations. Our results show that the GINI strategy leads to a high number of false positives."'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"NMD inhibition fails to identify tumour suppressor genes in microsatellite stable gastric cancer cell lines "'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis."'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Results:  UPF1 expression was reduced for >70% and >80% in the GP202 and IPA220 gastric cancer cell lines, respectively. Integration of array CGH and microarray expression data provided a list of 134 and 50 candidate genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion for GP202 and IPA220, respectively. We selected 12 candidate genes for mutation analysis. Sequence analysis was performed on 11 genes. One gene, PLA2G4A, showed a silent mutation, and in two genes, CTSA and PTPRJ, missense mutations were detected. No nonsense mutations were detected in any of the 11 genes tested. "'
GSE12928-GPL5477_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Conclusions: Although UPF1 was substantially repressed, thus resulting in the inhibition of the NMD system, we did not find genes inactivated by nonsense mutations. Our results show that the GINI strategy leads to a high number of false positives."'
GSE12952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) and poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) are enzymes that modify target proteins in the nucleus by the addition and removal, respectively, of ADP-ribose polymers.  Although a role for PARP-1 in gene regulation has been well established, the role of PARG is less clear.  To investigate how PARP-1 and PARG coordinately regulate global patterns of gene expression, we used short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) to stably knockdown PARP-1 or PARG in MCF-7 cells, followed by expression microarray analyses."'
GSE12952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA was isolated from stable Luc, PARP-1, and PARG knockdown cells was analyzed for global patterns of gene expression.  Briefly, 7 μg of total RNA was labeled using Affymetrix's standard one-cycle amplification and labeling protocol.  The labeled cRNA was then hybridized to Affymetrix Human U133A 2.0 GeneChips, which were scanned using a GeneChip Scanner 3000.  Each biological replicate (1, 2 or 3) represents a single RNA isolation from each set of cell lines."'
GSE12952_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Specifically, the criteria for a gene to be considered regulated by PARP-1 or PARG was: (1) detection call flagged as present or marginal in 2 out of 3 array replicates for both control and factor knockdown cell lines and (2) significance of values between control and knockdown cell lines for any given gene had a two-tailed Student’s t-test with a p-value < 0.05.  To determine the genes most robustly regulated by PARP-1 or PARG, a fold change criteria was applied, namely log2 fold change > 0.5 or < -0.5 when compared to the Luc control knockdown cells."'
GSE12963_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_title	"Gene expression in human CD4+ T-lymphocytes infected with VSVG-pseudotyped HIV-1 viruses lacking Env, Vpr, and Nef"'
GSE12963_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The high mutation rate of HIV is linked to the generation of viruses expressing proteins with altered function whose impact on disease progression is unknown. We investigated the effects of HIV-1 viruses lacking Env, Vpr and Nef on CD4+ T cell gene expression using high-density DNA microarray analysis and functional assays."'
GSE12967_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_title	"miR-K5 expression and inhibition"'
GSE12971_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Affymetrix expression arrays were used to compare expression patterns upon knockdown of PARP-1,  PARG, SIRT1, or macroH2A in comparison to Luciferase control."'
GSE12971_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Total RNA isolated from three independently generated control-matched MCF-7 knockdown cell lines targeting Luciferase (control), PARP-1, PARG, SIRT1, and macroH2A was used to probe Affymetrix Human U133A 2.0 Expression Microarrays."'
GSE12992_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Medulloblastoma is the most frequent malignant pediatric brain tumor. Considerable efforts are dedicated to identify markers that help to refine treatment strategies. The activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway occurs in 10-15% of medulloblastomas and has been recently described as a marker for favorable patient outcome. We report a series of 72 pediatric medulloblastomas evaluated for beta-catenin immunostaining, CTNNB1 mutations, and studied by comparative genomic hybridization. Gene expression profiles were also available in a subset of 40 cases. Immunostaining of beta-catenin showed extensive nuclear staining (>50% of the tumor cells) in 6 cases and focal nuclear staining (<10% of cells) in 3 cases. The other cases exhibited either a signal strictly limited to the cytoplasm (58 cases) or were negative (5 cases). CTNNB1 mutations were detected in all beta-catenin extensively nucleopositive cases. The expression profiles of these cases documented a strong activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Remarkably, 5 out of these 6 tumors showed a complete loss of chromosome 6. In contrast, cases with focal nuclear beta-catenin staining, as well as tumors with negative or cytoplasmic staining, never demonstrated CTNNB1 mutation, Wnt/beta-catenin pathway activation or chromosome 6 loss. Patients with extensive nuclear staining were significantly older at diagnosis and were in continuous complete remission after a mean follow-up of 75.7 months (range 27.5-121.2) from diagnosis. All three patients with a focal nuclear staining of beta-catenin died within 36 months from diagnosis. Altogether, these data confirm and extend previous observations that CTNNB1-mutated tumors represent a distinct molecular subgroup of medulloblastomas with favorable outcome, indicating that therapy de-escalation should be considered. Yet, international consensus on the definition criteria of this distinct medulloblastoma subgroup should be achieved."'
GSE12995_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"We studied a cohort of 221 high-risk pediatric B-progenitor ALL patients that excluded known high risk ALL subtypes (BCR-ABL1 and infant ALL), using Affymetrix single nucleotide polymorphism microarrays, gene expression profiling and candidate gene resequencing. A CNA poor outcome predictor was identified using a semi-supervised principal components approach, and tested in an independent validation cohort of 258 pediatric B-progenitor ALL cases. Over 50 regions of recurring somatically acquired CNA, with the most frequently targeted genes encoding regulators of B-lymphoid development (66.8% of cases; with PAX5 targeted in 31.7% and IKZF1 in 28.6%). A CNA classifier identified a very poor outcome subgroup in the high-risk cohort (P=4.2x10-5) and was strongly associated with the presence of deletions involving IKZF1, which encodes the early lymphoid transcription factor IKAROS. This classifier, and IKZF1 deletions, also predicted poor outcome and elevated minimal residual disease at the end of induction therapy in the validation cohort. The gene expression signature of the poor outcome group was characterized by reduced expression of B lineage specific genes, and was highly related to the expressing signature of BCR-ABL1 ALL, a known high-risk ALL subtype also characterized by a high frequency of IKZF1 deletion.Somatically acquired deletions involving IKZF1 identify a very poor outcome subgroup of pediatric ALL patients. Incorporation of molecular tests to identify IKZF1 deletion in diagnostic leukemic blasts should improve the ability to accurately risk stratify patients for appropriate therapy."'
GSE13030_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small (21-25 nucleotide in length) non-coding RNA molecules that negatively regulate protein expression. They are linked to cancer development and maintenance. In this work, studying gene expression profiles of 340 mammalian miRNAs with DNA microarrays, we selected 10 miRNAs gene features able to distinguish primary from secondary glioblastoma type; furthermore we verified that miR-21 and miR-155 up-regulatation seems to characterize the glioblastoma tumour state since it was found up-regulated in all samples analyzed compared to adult brain noneoplastic tissue. Since miR-21 function in glioblastoma cells was addressed previously we concentrated our efforts on miR-155 function. We found that miR-155 levels were markedly elevated both in primary and secondary glioblastomas tumours, in glioblastoma cell cultures and in 4 glioblastoma cell lines (U87, A172, LN229, and LN308) compared with adult brain tissue, CHP212-neuroblastoma cell lines and DAOY-1-medulloblastoma cell line.  Since one of the miR-155 target was gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor (GABRA1) we verified if there was a relation between miR-155 up-regulation and GABRA1 expression. We  demonstrated that, in cultured glioblastoma cells, knockdown of miR-155, which lower miR-155 expression to normal level, restore the normal expression of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor (GABRA1), making glioblastoma cells responsive to GABA cell cycle inhibiting signals. Our data suggest that aberrantly over-expressed miR-155 contribute to the malignant phenotype of the glioblastoma cells, promoting their unlimited growth."'
GSE13047_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"In vivo protein-DNA interactions connect each transcription factor with its direct targets to form a gene network scaffold. To map these protein-DNA interactions comprehensively across entire mammalian genomes, we developed a large-scale chromatin immunoprecipitation assay (ChIPSeq) based on direct ultrahigh-throughput DNA sequencing. This sequence census method was then used to map in vivo binding of the neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF; also known as REST, for repressor element–1 silencing transcription factor) to 1946 locations in the human genome. The data display sharp resolution of binding position [±50 base pairs (bp)], which facilitated our finding motifs and allowed us to identify noncanonical NRSF-binding motifs. These ChIPSeq data also have high sensitivity and specificity [ROC (receiver operator characteristic) area ≥ 0.96] and statistical confidence (P < 10−4), properties that were important for inferring new candidate interactions. These include key transcription factors in the gene network that regulates pancreatic islet cell development."'
GSE13091_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"A key step in angiogenesis is the upregulation of growth factor receptors on endothelial cells. Here we demonstrate that a small regulatory microRNA, miR-296 has a major role in this process. Glioma cells and angiogenic growth factors elevate the level of miR-296 in primary human brain microvascular endothelial cells in culture. The miR-296 level is also elevated in primary tumor endothelial cells isolated from human brain tumors compared to normal brain endothelial cells. Growth factor-induced miR-296 contributes significantly to angiogenesis by directly targeting the hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HGS) mRNA, leading to decreased levels of HGS and thereby reducing HGS-mediated degradation of the growth factor receptors VEGFR2 and PDGFR-β. Furthermore, inhibition of miR-296 with antagomirs reduces angiogenesis in tumor xenografts in vivo."'
GSE13110_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"MYB silencing in CD34+ progenitor cells"'
GSE13110_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The c-Myb transcription factor is highly expressed in immature hematopoietic cells and down-regulated during differentiation. To define the role of c-Myb in human hematopoietic lineage commitment, we studied the effects of its silencing during the commitment of human CD34+ Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. In CD34+ cells c-Myb silencing determined a cell cycle arrest in G0/G1 phase which strongly decreased the clonogenic efficiency, togheter with a reduction of erythroid colonies coupled with an increase of the macrophage and megakaryocyte ones. Moreover, morphological and flow cytometry data supported the preferential macrophage and megakaryocyte differentiation of c-Myb-silenced CD34+ cells. Taken together our data indicate that c-Myb is essential for the commitment along the erythroid and granulocyte lineages but not for the macrophage and megakaryocyte differentiation. Gene expression profiling of c-Myb-silenced CD34+ cells identified some potential c-Myb targets which can account for these effects, to study by Chromatin Immunoprecipitation and Luciferase Reporter Assay."'
GSE13137_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Identifying genes whose expression is consistently altered by chromosomal gains or losses is an important step in defining genes of biological relevance in a wide variety of tumour types. However, additional criteria are needed to discriminate further among the large number of candidate genes identified. This is particularly true for neuroblastoma, where multiple genomic copy number changes of proven prognostic value exist. We have used Affymetrix microarrays and a combination of fluorescent in-situ hybridisation and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarrays to establish expression profiles and delineate copy number alterations in 30 primary neuroblastomas. Correlation of microarray data with patient survival and analysis of expression within rodent neuroblastoma cell lines were then used to further define genes likely to be involved in the disease process. Using this approach we identify >1000 genes within 8 recurrent genomic alterations (loss of 1p, 3p, 4p, 10q and 11q, 2p gain, 17q gain, and the MYCN amplicon) whose expression is consistently altered by copy number change. Of these, 84 correlate with patient survival, with the minimal regions of 17q gain and 4p loss being significantly enriched for such genes. Orthologues of all but one of these genes on 17q are overexpressed in rodent neuroblastoma cell lines. A significant excess of SNPs whose copy number correlates with survival is also observed on proximal 4p in stage 4 tumours, and we find that deletion of 4p is associated with improved outcome in an extended cohort of tumours. These results define the major impact of genomic copy number alterations upon transcription within neuroblastoma, and highlight genes on distal 17q and proximal 4p for downstream analyses. They also suggest that integration of discriminators such as survival and comparative gene expression with microarray data may be useful in the identification of critical genes within regions of loss or gain in many human cancers."'
GSE13137_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Identifying genes whose expression is consistently altered by chromosomal gains or losses is an important step in defining genes of biological relevance in a wide variety of tumour types. However, additional criteria are needed to discriminate further among the large number of candidate genes identified. This is particularly true for neuroblastoma, where multiple genomic copy number changes of proven prognostic value exist. We have used Affymetrix microarrays and a combination of fluorescent in-situ hybridisation and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarrays to establish expression profiles and delineate copy number alterations in 30 primary neuroblastomas. Correlation of microarray data with patient survival and analysis of expression within rodent neuroblastoma cell lines were then used to further define genes likely to be involved in the disease process. Using this approach we identify >1000 genes within 8 recurrent genomic alterations (loss of 1p, 3p, 4p, 10q and 11q, 2p gain, 17q gain, and the MYCN amplicon) whose expression is consistently altered by copy number change. Of these, 84 correlate with patient survival, with the minimal regions of 17q gain and 4p loss being significantly enriched for such genes. Orthologues of all but one of these genes on 17q are overexpressed in rodent neuroblastoma cell lines. A significant excess of SNPs whose copy number correlates with survival is also observed on proximal 4p in stage 4 tumours, and we find that deletion of 4p is associated with improved outcome in an extended cohort of tumours. These results define the major impact of genomic copy number alterations upon transcription within neuroblastoma, and highlight genes on distal 17q and proximal 4p for downstream analyses. They also suggest that integration of discriminators such as survival and comparative gene expression with microarray data may be useful in the identification of critical genes within regions of loss or gain in many human cancers."'
GSE13144_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two control experiments and two CD133 knockdown experiments."'
GSE13168_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Glucocorticoids (GCs) and protein kinase A (PKA)-activating agents (beta-adrenergic receptor agonists) are mainstream asthma therapies based on their ability to prevent or reverse excessive airway smooth muscle (ASM) constriction.  Their abilities to regulate another important feature of asthma - excessive ASM growth are poorly understood.  Recent studies have suggested that GCs render agents of inflammation such as interleukin 1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha mitogenic to ASM, via suppression of (antimitogenic) induced cyclooxygenase-2-dependent PKA activity.  To further explore the mechanistic basis of these observations, we assessed the effects of epidermal growth factor and interleukin 1beta stimulation, and the modulatory effects of GC treatment and PKA inhibition, on the ASM transcriptome by microarray analysis."'
GSE13191-GPL2819_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"RESULTS: Combination of DNA copy number profiles (array CGH) with gene expression profiles identified five chromosomal regions differentiating BM-negative from BM-positive patients (4q12-q32, 10p12-p11, 10q21-q22, 17q21 and 20q11-q13). Copy number changes of 4q12-q32 were the most prominent finding, containing the highest number of differentially expressed genes irrespective of chromosomal size (p=0.018). FISH analyses on further primary lung tumor samples confirmed the association between loss of 4q and the BM-positive status. In BM-positive patients 4q was frequently lost (37% vs. 7%), whereas gains could be commonly found among BM-negative patients (7% vs. 17%). The same loss was also found to be common in brain metastases from both small and non-small-cell lung cancer patients (39%). "'
GSE13191-GPL3055_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"RESULTS: Combination of DNA copy number profiles (array CGH) with gene expression profiles identified five chromosomal regions differentiating BM-negative from BM-positive patients (4q12-q32, 10p12-p11, 10q21-q22, 17q21 and 20q11-q13). Copy number changes of 4q12-q32 were the most prominent finding, containing the highest number of differentially expressed genes irrespective of chromosomal size (p=0.018). FISH analyses on further primary lung tumor samples confirmed the association between loss of 4q and the BM-positive status. In BM-positive patients 4q was frequently lost (37% vs. 7%), whereas gains could be commonly found among BM-negative patients (7% vs. 17%). The same loss was also found to be common in brain metastases from both small and non-small-cell lung cancer patients (39%). "'
GSE13205_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Septic patients treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) often develop multiple organ failure including persistent skeletal muscle dysfunction which results in the patient’s protracted recovery process. We have demonstrated that muscle mitochondrial enzyme activities are impaired in septic ICU patients resulting in decreased cellular energy which will interfere with muscle function and metabolism. Here we use detailed phenotyping and genomics to elucidate mechanisms leading to these impairments.  Methodology/Principle Findings  Utilising biopsy material from seventeen patients and ten age-matched controls we demonstrate that neither mitochondrial in vivo protein synthesis nor expression of mitochondrial genes are compromised. Indeed, there was partial activation of the mitochondrial biogenesis pathway involving NRF2?/GABP and its target genes TFAM, TFB1M and TFB2M yet clearly this failed to maintain mitochondrial function. We therefore utilised transcript profiling and pathway analysis of ICU patient skeletal muscle to generate insight into the molecular defects driving loss of muscle function and metabolic homeostasis. Gene ontology analysis of Affymetrix analysis demonstrated substantial loss of muscle specific genes, a global oxidative stress response related to most probably cytokine signalling, altered insulin related signalling and a substantial overlap between patients and muscle wasting/inflammatory animal models. MicroRNA 21 processing appeared defective suggesting that post-transcriptional protein synthesis regulation is altered by disruption of tissue microRNA expression. Finally, we were able to demonstrate that the phenotype of skeletal muscle in ICU patients is not merely one of inactivity, it appears to be an actively remodelling tissue, influenced by several mediators, all of which may be open to manipulation with the aim to improve clinical outcome.   Conclusions/Significance  This first combined protein and transcriptome based analysis of human skeletal muscle obtained from septic patients demonstrated that losses of mitochondria and muscle mass are accompanied by sustained protein synthesis (anabolic process) while dysregulation of transcription programmes appears to fail to compensate for increased damage and proteolysis. Our analysis identified both validated and novel clinically tractable targets to manipulate these failing processes and pursuit of these could lead to new potential treatments."'
GSE13218_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"This study compares gene expression change upon expression of Yes-associated protein (YAP) wild-type or mutants in order to establish the importance of TEAD binding and WW domains in the gene-induction function of YAP. The results indicate that gene-induction is seriously comprised in YAP-S94A (TEAD binding domain mutant) expressing cells. And mutantion of WW domains (YAP-W1W2) also affect a fraction of YAP induced genes. Therefore both TEAD binding domain and WW domains are required for the full function of YAP in gene-induction."'
GSE13261_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"HES2 ESC were infected with a lentivirus construct containing either CD30 (TNFRSF8) extracellular deficient variant or GFP, using the ViraPower™ Promoterless Lentiviral Gateway® Kits (Invitrogen).  HES2 cells were recovered and grown for 19 passages.  HES2 were commonly grown on Mouse Embryonic Feeder cells in the presence of KSOR media."'
GSE13286_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is a mammalian histone methyltransferase that contributes to the epigenetic silencing of target genes and regulates the survival and metastasis of cancer cells. EZH2 is overexpressed in aggressive solid tumors by mechanisms that remain unclear. Here we show that the expression and function of EZH2 in cancer cell lines are inhibited by microRNA-101 (miR-101)."'
GSE13291_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Targeting “oncogene addiction” is a promising strategy for anti-cancer therapy.  Here, we report a potent inhibition of crucial oncogenes by p53 upon reactivation with small molecule RITA in vitro and in vivo. RITA-activated p53 unleashes transcriptional repression of anti-apoptotic proteins Mcl-1, Bcl-2, MAP4, and survivin, blocks Akt pathway on several levels and downregulates c-Myc, cyclin E and B-catenin. p53 ablates c-Myc expression via several mechanisms at transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. We show that transrepression of oncogenes correlated with higher level of p53 bound to chromatin-bound p53 than transactivation of pro-apoptotic targets.  Inhibition of oncogenes by p53 reduces the cell’s ability to buffer pro-apoptotic signals and elicits robust apoptosis. Our study highlights the role of transcriptional repression for p53-mediated tumor suppression."'
GSE13296_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_title	"miR-155 KO in human dendritic cells"'
GSE13296_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"In response to inflammatory stimulation, dendritic cells (DCs) have a remarkable pattern of differentiation (maturation) that exhibits specific mechanisms to control immunity. Here, we show that in response to Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), several microRNAs (miRNAs) are regulated in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells. Among these miRNAs, miR-155 is highly up-regulated during maturation. Using LNA silencing combined to microarray technology, we have identified the Toll-like receptor / interleukin-1 (TLR/IL-1) inflammatory pathway as a general target of miR-155. We further demonstrate that miR-155 directly controls the level of important signal transduction molecules. Our observations suggest, therefore, that in mature human DCs, miR-155 is part of a negative feedback loop, which down-modulates inflammatory cytokine production in response to microbial stimuli."'
GSE13296_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"We devised a strategy to functionally inhibit the mature form of miR-155 with the aim of identifying the signaling pathways controlled by miR-155 during DC maturation. A LNA-modified oligonucleotide, specifically designed for miR-155 knockdown (anti-miR-155 LNA) was introduced in moDCs by nucleofection prior LPS stimulation. 24h after transfection, a reduction in miR-155 levels of 8- and 32-fold was observed by qPCR in immature and mature moDCs respectively. A comparative microarray analysis (Affymetrix U133 2.0 chip) was performed among miR-155 silenced (anti-miR-155 LNA) and control transfected (scramble LNA) moDCs, exposed or not to LPS. Thus, four samples were totally analyzed. As expected from the limited expression of miR-155 in non-activated DCs, little variation in mRNA expression (177 probe sets differentially expressed employing a cut-off of 1.5) was detected upon miR-155 silencing. Conversely, in LPS-activated cells many mRNAs (1324 probe sets, 770 up-regulated and 554 down-regulated) were affected by miR-155 inhibition. "'
GSE13296_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"We devised a strategy to functionally inhibit the mature form of miR-155 with the aim of identifying the signaling pathways controlled by miR-155 during DC maturation. A LNA-modified oligonucleotide, specifically designed for miR-155 knockdown (anti-miR-155 LNA) was introduced in moDCs by nucleofection prior LPS stimulation. 24h after transfection, a reduction in miR-155 levels of 8- and 32-fold was observed by qPCR in immature and mature moDCs respectively. A comparative microarray analysis (Affymetrix U133 2.0 chip) was performed among miR-155 silenced (anti-miR-155 LNA) and control transfected (scramble LNA) moDCs, exposed or not to LPS. Thus, four samples were totally analyzed. As expected from the limited expression of miR-155 in non-activated DCs, little variation in mRNA expression (177 probe sets differentially expressed employing a cut-off of 1.5) was detected upon miR-155 silencing. Conversely, in LPS-activated cells many mRNAs (1324 probe sets, 770 up-regulated and 554 down-regulated) were affected by miR-155 inhibition. "'
GSE13296_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"We devised a strategy to functionally inhibit the mature form of miR-155 with the aim of identifying the signaling pathways controlled by miR-155 during DC maturation. A LNA-modified oligonucleotide, specifically designed for miR-155 knockdown (anti-miR-155 LNA) was introduced in moDCs by nucleofection prior LPS stimulation. 24h after transfection, a reduction in miR-155 levels of 8- and 32-fold was observed by qPCR in immature and mature moDCs respectively. A comparative microarray analysis (Affymetrix U133 2.0 chip) was performed among miR-155 silenced (anti-miR-155 LNA) and control transfected (scramble LNA) moDCs, exposed or not to LPS. Thus, four samples were totally analyzed. As expected from the limited expression of miR-155 in non-activated DCs, little variation in mRNA expression (177 probe sets differentially expressed employing a cut-off of 1.5) was detected upon miR-155 silencing. Conversely, in LPS-activated cells many mRNAs (1324 probe sets, 770 up-regulated and 554 down-regulated) were affected by miR-155 inhibition. "'
GSE13300_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	"Most autoreactive B cells are normally counterselected during early B cell development.  To determine whether Toll-like receptors (TLRs) regulate the removal of autoreactive B lymphocytes, we tested the reactivity of recombinant antibodies from single B cells isolated from patients deficient for IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)-4, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and UNC-93B.  Indeed, all TLRs except TLR3 require IRAK-4 and MyD88 to signal and UNC-93B-deficient cells are unresponsive to TLR3, TLR7, TLR8 and TLR9.  All patients suffered from defective central and peripheral B cell tolerance checkpoints resulting in the accumulation of large numbers of autoreactive mature naïve B cells in their blood.  Hence, TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 may prevent the recruitment of developing autoreactive B cells in healthy donors.  Paradoxically, IRAK-4-, MyD88- and UNC-93B-deficient patients did not display autoreactive antibodies in their serum nor developed autoimmune diseases, suggesting that IRAK-4, MyD88 and UNC-93B pathway blockade may thwart autoimmunity in humans."'
GSE13308_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"To understand how chromatin structure is organized by different histone variants, we have measured the genome-wide distribution of nucleosome core particles (NCPs) containing the histone variants H3.3 and H2A.Z in human cells. We find that a special class of NCPs containing both variants is enriched at ‘nucleosome-free regions’ of active promoters, enhancers and insulator regions. We show that preparative methods used previously in studying nucleosome structure result in the loss of these unstable double-variant NCPs. It seems likely that this instability facilitates the access of transcription factors to promoters and other regulatory sites in vivo. Other combinations of variants have different distributions, consistent with distinct roles for histone variants in the modulation of gene expression."'
GSE13332_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Prostate cancer is the most common, lethal malignancy in men. Although androgen withdrawal therapies are used to treat advanced disease, progression to a castration-resistant, end-stage is the usual outcome. In this study, the tested hypothesis was that the androgen receptor remains essential for the growth and viability of castration-resistant disease. Knocking down the androgen receptor in well-established tumors grown in castrated mice caused growth arrest, decreased serum PSA, and frequently regression and total eradication of tumors. Growth control of castration-resistant tumors appeared to be linked to the extent of androgen receptor knockdown, which triggers upregulation of many genes involved in apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and inhibition of tumorigenesis and protein synthesis. Our findings provide proof of principle that in vivo knockdown of the androgen receptor is a viable therapeutic strategy to control and possibly eradicate prostate cancers that have progressed to the lethal castration-resistant state.  "'
GSE13332_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Prostate cancer is the most common, lethal malignancy in men. Although androgen withdrawal therapies are used to treat advanced disease, progression to a castration-resistant, end-stage is the usual outcome. In this study, the tested hypothesis was that the androgen receptor remains essential for the growth and viability of castration-resistant disease. Knocking down the androgen receptor in well-established tumors grown in castrated mice caused growth arrest, decreased serum PSA, and frequently regression and total eradication of tumors. Growth control of castration-resistant tumors appeared to be linked to the extent of androgen receptor knockdown, which triggers upregulation of many genes involved in apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and inhibition of tumorigenesis and protein synthesis. Our findings provide proof of principle that in vivo knockdown of the androgen receptor is a viable therapeutic strategy to control and possibly eradicate prostate cancers that have progressed to the lethal castration-resistant state.  "'
GSE13332_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"C4-2 human prostate cancer cells stably expressing a tetracycline-inducible AR-targeted short hairpin RNA (shRNA) or scrambled shRNA were generated. These two cell lines were incubated in the absence of androgens with or without doxycycline hyclase (DOX). Comparison analysis of the gene expression profiles of C4-2 cells stably expressing AR shRNA + DOX and control cells (AR shRNA - DOX and scrambled shRNA ± DOX) was conducted to identify differentially regulated genes due to AR knockdown after normalization and data filtering. Genes were considered to be significantly different if the expression in the induced AR shRNA + DOX cells was at least 1.7-fold greater or 1.7-fold less than that seen in the control cells, with P< 0.05."'
GSE13334_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"p53 knockdown by shRNA markedly increased efficiency of human iPS cell generation"'
GSE13353_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We identified pathways and candidate genes associated to the rupture of human sIA wall. These results provide a molecular basis analysis (a) to identify rupture-prone sIAs and (b) to prevent their rupture. Novel measures to prevent the rupture of sIA wall may include inhibition of response to turbulent blood flow, leukocyte migration, TLR signalling, or blockade of NF-κB, HIF1A and ETS transcription factors."'
GSE13370_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Small non-coding RNAs function in concert with Argonaute (Ago) proteins to regulate gene  expression at the level of transcription, mRNA stability or translation. Ago proteins bind  small RNAs and form the core of silencing complexes. Here we report the analysis of small  RNAs associated with human Ago1 and Ago2 revealed by immunoprecipitation and deep  sequencing. Among the reads we find small RNAs originating from the small nucleolar RNA  (snoRNA) ACA45. Moreover, processing of ACA45 requires Dicer activity but is  independent of Drosha/DGCR8. Using bio-informatic prediction algorithms and luciferase  reporter assays, we uncover the mediator subunit CDC2L6 as one potential mRNA target of  ACA45 small RNAs suggesting a role for ACA45 processing products in post-transcriptional  gene silencing. We further identify a number of human snoRNAs with microRNA (miRNA)-  like processing signatures. We have therefore identified a novel class of small RNAs in  human cells that originate from snoRNAs and can function like miRNAs."'
GSE13437_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_summary	"Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals. During infection, HCMV is known to employ host transcription factors to facilitate viral gene expression. To further understand the previously observed delayed viral replication and protein expression in p53 knockout cells, we conducted microarray analyses on p53+/+ and p53-/- immortalized fibroblast cell lines. At 12 hpi, applying the significance criteria defined above, no genes showed a significant difference in any of the comparisons. At 24 hpi, we found 19 genes to be significantly different in the THF versus p53-/- comparison and 14 genes to be significantly different in the HFF versus p53-/- comparison. Eleven genes were shared between HFF and THF cells when compared to p53-/- cells (UL30, UL54, UL63, UL65, UL69, UL75, UL110, UL122, IRL4, IRS1, TRS1, shown in bold in Table 1). Eight genes were unique in the THF versus p53-/- comparison (UL48, UL68, UL84, UL100, UL106, UL109, UL111, RL5A), and three genes in the HFF versus p53-/- cell comparison (UL14, UL16, US2). When comparing HFF and THF cells, only US2 showed a significant difference. The ratio (HFF versus p53-/- divided by THF versus p53-/-) of the expression levels of the eleven shared genes from the HFF versus p53-/- and THF versus p53-/- comparisons was an averaged 1.2, indicating that, with the exception of US2, these two cell lines behaved similarly with respect to p53-driven viral gene expression."'
GSE13439_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"4 archival FFPE tumor samples were analyzed with Affymetrix 250K Nsp SNP microarrays and virtual-karyotype results for PTEN region were compared to PTEN deletion analysis by FISH."'
GSE13449_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression analysis upon NAMPT knockdown in MCF-7 cells"'
GSE13449_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"NAMPT is an enzyme in the mammalian NAD+ salvage pathway. Expression microarray analysis was used to study the effect of NAMPT knockdown on gene expression in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. "'
GSE13449_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Stable knockdown of NAMPT was achieved using a retroviral shRNA construct. An shRNA directed against Luciferase was used to generate the Luc control cells.  Three independent biological replicates with matching Luc controls were analyzed using Affymetrix U133 A2.0 microarrays. "'
GSE13458-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression analysis upon NMNAT1 knockdown in MCF-7 cells"'
GSE13458-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"NMNAT1 is a nuclear enzyme in the mammalian NAD+ salvage pathway. Expression microarray analysis was used to study the effect of NMNAT1 knockdown on gene expression in MCF-7 breast cancer cells."'
GSE13458-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"NMNAT1 stable knockdown was achieved using a retroviral shRNA construct. An shRNA directed against Luciferase was used to generate the Luc control cells.  Three independent cell populations with matching Luc controls were prepared for the expression analysis.  Each cell population was treated with either vehicle control (ethanol) or estradiol (E2) for 3 hours before harvest of RNA samples.  Four samples in one replicate (LUC2 CON, LUC2 E2, NMNAT2 CON and NMNAT2 E2) were hybridized to Affymetrix U133 Plus 2.0 arrays, while the other two replicates of eight samples were hybridized to Affymetrix U133A 2.0 arrays.  "'
GSE13458-GPL571_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression analysis upon NMNAT1 knockdown in MCF-7 cells"'
GSE13458-GPL571_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"NMNAT1 is a nuclear enzyme in the mammalian NAD+ salvage pathway. Expression microarray analysis was used to study the effect of NMNAT1 knockdown on gene expression in MCF-7 breast cancer cells."'
GSE13458-GPL571_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"NMNAT1 stable knockdown was achieved using a retroviral shRNA construct. An shRNA directed against Luciferase was used to generate the Luc control cells.  Three independent cell populations with matching Luc controls were prepared for the expression analysis.  Each cell population was treated with either vehicle control (ethanol) or estradiol (E2) for 3 hours before harvest of RNA samples.  Four samples in one replicate (LUC2 CON, LUC2 E2, NMNAT2 CON and NMNAT2 E2) were hybridized to Affymetrix U133 Plus 2.0 arrays, while the other two replicates of eight samples were hybridized to Affymetrix U133A 2.0 arrays.  "'
GSE13459_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression analysis upon SIRT1 knockdown in MCF-7 cells"'
GSE13459_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"SIRT1 is a nuclear NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase.  Expression microarray analysis was used to study the effect of SIRT1 knockdown on gene expression in MCF-7 breast cancer cells."'
GSE13459_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"SIRT1 stable knockdown was achieved using two retroviral shRNA constructs. An shRNA directed against Luciferase was used to generate the Luc control cells.  Three independent biological replicates with matching Luc controls were analyzed using Affymetrix U133A 2.0 microarrays."'
GSE13460_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Effect of wt versus mutant hsa-miR-122 overexpression on spontaneous hESC differentiation"'
GSE13460_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'KO' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lentiviral vectors encoding either wt or mutant (control) hsa-miR-122 were transduced into hES cells (line HES2). The cells differentiated spontaneously in KO medium without feeder cells for 2 weeks, and the gene expression profile of wt- vs mutant-expressing miR-122 was compared. We used for this study 3 arrays for control (mutant miR) and 2 arrays for the treatment (wt miRNA).  "'
GSE13460_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"Lentiviral vectors encoding either wt or mutant (control) hsa-miR-122 were transduced into hES cells (line HES2). The cells differentiated spontaneously in KO medium without feeder cells for 2 weeks, and the gene expression profile of wt- vs mutant-expressing miR-122 was compared. We used for this study 3 arrays for control (mutant miR) and 2 arrays for the treatment (wt miRNA).  "'
GSE13470_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Glioblastoma tumour cells release microvesicles (exosomes) containing mRNA, miRNA and angiogenic proteins. These microvesicles are taken up by normal host cells, such as brain microvascular endothelial cells. By incorporating an mRNA for a reporter protein into these microvesicles, we demonstrate that messages delivered by microvesicles are translated by recipient cells. These microvesicles are also enriched in angiogenic proteins and stimulate tubule formation by endothelial cells. Tumour-derived microvesicles therefore serve as a means of delivering genetic information and proteins to recipient cells in the tumour environment. Glioblastoma microvesicles also stimulated proliferation of a human glioma cell line, indicating a self-promoting aspect. Messenger RNA mutant/variants and miRNAs characteristic of gliomas could be detected in serum microvesicles of glioblastoma patients. The tumour-specific EGFRvIII was detected in serum microvesicles from 7 out of 25 glioblastoma patients. Thus, tumour-derived microvesicles may provide diagnostic information and aid in therapeutic decisions for cancer patients through a blood test."'
GSE13487_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"We have generated melanoma A375 cells stably expressing a shRNA construct for doxycycline-inducible knockdown of B-Raf (2 mg/ml Dox, 48h). Small molecule treatment was at 1000nM R341787, 24h."'
GSE13514_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Targeting protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms by the small molecule inhibitor enzastaurin has shown promising pre-clinical activity in a wide range of tumor cells. In this study, we further delineated its mechanism of action in multiple myeloma (MM) cells and found a novel role of b-catenin in regulating growth and survival of tumor cells. Specifically, inhibition of PKC leads to rapid accumulation of b-catenin by preventing the phosphorylation required for its proteasomal degradation. Microarray analysis and siRNA-mediated gene silencing in MM cells revealed that accumulated b-catenin activates early ER stress signaling via eIF2a, CHOP and p21, leading to immediate growth inhibition. Furthermore, accumulated b-catenin contributes to enzastaurin-induced cell death. Both sequential knock-down of b-catenin, c-Jun, and p73, as well as overexpression of  b-catenin or p73 confirmed that accumulated b-catenin triggers c-Jun-dependent induction of p73,  thereby conferring MM cell apoptosis. In summary, our data reveal a novel role of b-catenin in ER stress-mediated growth inhibition, and a new pro-apoptotic mechanism triggered by b-catenin upon inhibition of PKC isoforms. Moreover, we identify p73 as a potential novel therapeutic target in MM. Based on these and previous data, enzastaurin is currently under clinical investigation in a variety of hematologic malignancies including MM."'
GSE13514_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Targeting protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms by the small molecule inhibitor enzastaurin has shown promising pre-clinical activity in a wide range of tumor cells. In this study, we further delineated its mechanism of action in multiple myeloma (MM) cells and found a novel role of b-catenin in regulating growth and survival of tumor cells. Specifically, inhibition of PKC leads to rapid accumulation of b-catenin by preventing the phosphorylation required for its proteasomal degradation. Microarray analysis and siRNA-mediated gene silencing in MM cells revealed that accumulated b-catenin activates early ER stress signaling via eIF2a, CHOP and p21, leading to immediate growth inhibition. Furthermore, accumulated b-catenin contributes to enzastaurin-induced cell death. Both sequential knock-down of b-catenin, c-Jun, and p73, as well as overexpression of  b-catenin or p73 confirmed that accumulated b-catenin triggers c-Jun-dependent induction of p73,  thereby conferring MM cell apoptosis. In summary, our data reveal a novel role of b-catenin in ER stress-mediated growth inhibition, and a new pro-apoptotic mechanism triggered by b-catenin upon inhibition of PKC isoforms. Moreover, we identify p73 as a potential novel therapeutic target in MM. Based on these and previous data, enzastaurin is currently under clinical investigation in a variety of hematologic malignancies including MM."'
GSE13557-GPL3718_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Screening for gene copy-number alterations (CNAs) has improved by applying genome-wide microarrays, where SNP arrays also allow analysis of loss of heterozygozity (LOH). We here analyzed 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples using four different high-resolution platforms: BAC arrays (32K), oligonucleotide arrays (185K, Agilent), and two SNP arrays (250K, Affymetrix and 317K, Illumina). Cross-platform comparison revealed 29 concordantly detected CNAs, including known recurrent alterations, which confirmed that all platforms are powerful tools when screening for large aberrations. However, detection of 32 additional regions present in 2-3 platforms illustrated a discrepancy in detection of small CNAs, which often involved reported copy-number variations. LOH analysis revealed concordance of mainly large regions, but showed numerous, small nonoverlapping regions and LOH escaping detection. Evaluation of baseline variation and copy-number ratio response showed the best performance for the Agilent platform and confirmed the robustness of BAC arrays. Accordingly, these platforms demonstrated a higher degree of platform-specific CNAs. The SNP arrays displayed higher technical variation, although this was compensated by high density of elements. Affymetrix detected a higher degree of CNAs compared to Illumina, while the latter showed a lower noise level and higher detection rate in the LOH analysis. Large-scale studies of genomic aberrations are now feasible, but new tools for LOH analysis are requested."'
GSE13557-GPL4723_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Screening for gene copy-number alterations (CNAs) has improved by applying genome-wide microarrays, where SNP arrays also allow analysis of loss of heterozygozity (LOH). We here analyzed 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples using four different high-resolution platforms: BAC arrays (32K), oligonucleotide arrays (185K, Agilent), and two SNP arrays (250K, Affymetrix and 317K, Illumina). Cross-platform comparison revealed 29 concordantly detected CNAs, including known recurrent alterations, which confirmed that all platforms are powerful tools when screening for large aberrations. However, detection of 32 additional regions present in 2-3 platforms illustrated a discrepancy in detection of small CNAs, which often involved reported copy-number variations. LOH analysis revealed concordance of mainly large regions, but showed numerous, small nonoverlapping regions and LOH escaping detection. Evaluation of baseline variation and copy-number ratio response showed the best performance for the Agilent platform and confirmed the robustness of BAC arrays. Accordingly, these platforms demonstrated a higher degree of platform-specific CNAs. The SNP arrays displayed higher technical variation, although this was compensated by high density of elements. Affymetrix detected a higher degree of CNAs compared to Illumina, while the latter showed a lower noise level and higher detection rate in the LOH analysis. Large-scale studies of genomic aberrations are now feasible, but new tools for LOH analysis are requested."'
GSE13557-GPL5149_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Screening for gene copy-number alterations (CNAs) has improved by applying genome-wide microarrays, where SNP arrays also allow analysis of loss of heterozygozity (LOH). We here analyzed 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples using four different high-resolution platforms: BAC arrays (32K), oligonucleotide arrays (185K, Agilent), and two SNP arrays (250K, Affymetrix and 317K, Illumina). Cross-platform comparison revealed 29 concordantly detected CNAs, including known recurrent alterations, which confirmed that all platforms are powerful tools when screening for large aberrations. However, detection of 32 additional regions present in 2-3 platforms illustrated a discrepancy in detection of small CNAs, which often involved reported copy-number variations. LOH analysis revealed concordance of mainly large regions, but showed numerous, small nonoverlapping regions and LOH escaping detection. Evaluation of baseline variation and copy-number ratio response showed the best performance for the Agilent platform and confirmed the robustness of BAC arrays. Accordingly, these platforms demonstrated a higher degree of platform-specific CNAs. The SNP arrays displayed higher technical variation, although this was compensated by high density of elements. Affymetrix detected a higher degree of CNAs compared to Illumina, while the latter showed a lower noise level and higher detection rate in the LOH analysis. Large-scale studies of genomic aberrations are now feasible, but new tools for LOH analysis are requested."'
GSE13557-GPL6980_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Screening for gene copy-number alterations (CNAs) has improved by applying genome-wide microarrays, where SNP arrays also allow analysis of loss of heterozygozity (LOH). We here analyzed 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples using four different high-resolution platforms: BAC arrays (32K), oligonucleotide arrays (185K, Agilent), and two SNP arrays (250K, Affymetrix and 317K, Illumina). Cross-platform comparison revealed 29 concordantly detected CNAs, including known recurrent alterations, which confirmed that all platforms are powerful tools when screening for large aberrations. However, detection of 32 additional regions present in 2-3 platforms illustrated a discrepancy in detection of small CNAs, which often involved reported copy-number variations. LOH analysis revealed concordance of mainly large regions, but showed numerous, small nonoverlapping regions and LOH escaping detection. Evaluation of baseline variation and copy-number ratio response showed the best performance for the Agilent platform and confirmed the robustness of BAC arrays. Accordingly, these platforms demonstrated a higher degree of platform-specific CNAs. The SNP arrays displayed higher technical variation, although this was compensated by high density of elements. Affymetrix detected a higher degree of CNAs compared to Illumina, while the latter showed a lower noise level and higher detection rate in the LOH analysis. Large-scale studies of genomic aberrations are now feasible, but new tools for LOH analysis are requested."'
GSE13565-GPL6980_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"VUB05-HD is an hES cell line carrying the Huntingtin mutant gene"'
GSE13565-GPL7626_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"VUB05-HD is an hES cell line carrying the Huntingtin mutant gene"'
GSE13565-GPL7629_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"VUB05-HD is an hES cell line carrying the Huntingtin mutant gene"'
GSE13565-GPL7630_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"VUB05-HD is an hES cell line carrying the Huntingtin mutant gene"'
GSE13569_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The effects of ethanol may vary from induction of apoptosis to the inhibition of proliferation, differentiation, migration or other function.  The complex and diverse response of fetal cells to ethanol has prompted us to use a bioinformatics approach to study the effect of ethanol on fetal stem cells derived from the amniotic fluid-derived (AFSC).  "'
GSE13577-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"In mammals, nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) and nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase 1 (NMNAT-1) constitute a nuclear NAD+ salvage pathway, regulating cellular functions of the NAD+-dependent deacetylase SIRT1.  However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which NAD+ biosynthesis controls gene transcription in the nucleus.  In this study, we show that stable knockdown of NAMPT or NMNAT-1 in MCF-7 breast cancer cells significantly reduced total cellular NAD+ levels.  Expression microarray analyses demonstrate that both enzymes have broad and overlapping functions in gene regulation.  SIRT1 is a key mediator of NAMPT- and NMNAT-1-dependent gene regulation, and is found at promoters of many of the target genes.  Furthermore, SIRT1 deacetylase activity at these promoters is regulated by NAMPT and NMNAT-1.  Most significantly, NMNAT-1 interacts with SIRT1 and is recruited to target gene promoters by SIRT1.  Our results reveal an unexpected mechanism for the direct control of SIRT1 deacetylase activity at target gene promoters by NMNAT-1.  Interactions between NMNAT-1 and SIRT1 at gene promoters may provide a platform for integration of multiple signaling pathways that regulate transcription."'
GSE13577-GPL570_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Each of the 3 Series has its own matching luciferase knockdown controls and the three data sets were generated independently of each other."'
GSE13577-GPL571_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"In mammals, nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) and nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase 1 (NMNAT-1) constitute a nuclear NAD+ salvage pathway, regulating cellular functions of the NAD+-dependent deacetylase SIRT1.  However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which NAD+ biosynthesis controls gene transcription in the nucleus.  In this study, we show that stable knockdown of NAMPT or NMNAT-1 in MCF-7 breast cancer cells significantly reduced total cellular NAD+ levels.  Expression microarray analyses demonstrate that both enzymes have broad and overlapping functions in gene regulation.  SIRT1 is a key mediator of NAMPT- and NMNAT-1-dependent gene regulation, and is found at promoters of many of the target genes.  Furthermore, SIRT1 deacetylase activity at these promoters is regulated by NAMPT and NMNAT-1.  Most significantly, NMNAT-1 interacts with SIRT1 and is recruited to target gene promoters by SIRT1.  Our results reveal an unexpected mechanism for the direct control of SIRT1 deacetylase activity at target gene promoters by NMNAT-1.  Interactions between NMNAT-1 and SIRT1 at gene promoters may provide a platform for integration of multiple signaling pathways that regulate transcription."'
GSE13577-GPL571_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Each of the 3 Series has its own matching luciferase knockdown controls and the three data sets were generated independently of each other."'
GSE13587_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Human papilloma (HPV) virus-like particle (VLP) vaccines were recently licensed.  Though neutralizing antibody titers are thought to be the main effectors of protection against infection, early predictors of long-term efficacy are not yet defined and a comprehensive understanding of innate and adaptive immune responses to vaccination is still lacking.  Here, microarrays were used to compare the gene expression signature in HPV-16 L1 VLP-stimulated PBMC from 17 vaccine and 4 placebo recipients before vaccination, and 1 month after receiving the second immunization. Vaccination with HPV-16 L1 VLP was associated with modulation of genes involved in the inflammatory/defense response, cytokine, interferon and cell cycle pathways in VLP-stimulated PBMC. In addition, there was up-regulation of probesets associated with cytotoxic (GZMB, TNFSF10) and regulatory (INDO, CTLA4) activities. The strongest correlations with neutralizing antibody titers were found for cyclin d2 (CCND2) and galectin (LGALS2).  Twenty-two differentially expressed probesets were selected for confirmation by RT-PCR in an independent sample set. Agreement with the microarray data was seen for over two-thirds of these probesets.  Up-regulation of immune/defense response genes by VLP, in particular interferon-induced genes was observed in PBMC collected prior to vaccination, with many of these genes being further induced following vaccination. In conclusion, we used gene expression profiling to identify important innate and adaptive response related- genes induced by vaccination with HPV VLP.  Further studies are needed to identify gene expression signatures of immunogenicity and long-term protection with potential utility in prediction of long-term HPV vaccination outcomes in clinical trials."'
GSE13606_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deficient' in '!Series_summary	" Both UVA-1 irradiation and treatment with oxidized lipids led to increased nuclear accumulation of Nrf2. Silencing expression of Nrf2 using siRNA or using cells and tissue from Nrf2-deficient mice, we show that the induction of the co-regulated genes was suppressed. Expression of other canonical UVA-1-induced genes, including cyclooxygenase 2 (Cox2) and interleukin 6 (IL6) was unaltered in the absence of Nrf2. Together, our data show that UVA-1-mediated lipid oxidation induces induction of antioxidant response genes, which is dependent on the redox-regulated transcription factor Nrf2. To activate Nrf2 is a major strategy for novel antioxidant drugs, the skin photo-adaptation (SPA) inducers. Our finding that specific uv-oxidized lipids act similar sheds a new (ultraviolet) light on the usually detrimental “image” of UV generated lipid mediators."'
GSE13637_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"HUVECs were infected with either PR8, FPV or H5N1 virus. We used wildtype HUVEC or HUVEC transfected with a dominant negative mutant of IKK2 (block of the NF-kB signaling pathway). In case of FPV infections we also blocked p38 MAP kinase with an SB-inhibitor."'
GSE13638_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Ago2 or Dicer knockdown effects on mRNA levels in HeLa"'
GSE13639_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Drosha or DGCR8 knockdown effects on mRNA levels in HeLa"'
GSE13639_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Anaysis of mRNA changes in HeLa cells following knockdown of Drosha or DGCR8. Drosha is a nuclear RNase III that carries out microRNA (miRNA) processing by cleaving primary microRNA transcript (pri-miRNA). DGCR8 is an essential co-factor of Drosha."'
GSE13733_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation, histone modifications, and nucleosomal occupancy collaborate to cause silencing of tumor related genes in cancer.  The development of drugs that target these processes is therefore important for cancer therapy.   Inhibitors of DNA methylation and histone deacetylation have already been approved by the FDA for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.  However, drugs that target the other mechanisms still need to be developed.  Recently, 3-deazaneplanocin A (DZNep) was reported to selectively inhibit the trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3) and lysine 20 on histone H4 (H4K20me3) as well as re-activate silenced genes in cancer cells.  This finding opens the door to pharmacological inhibition of histone methylation and we therefore wanted to further study the mechanism of action of 3-deazaneplanocin A in cancer cells.  Western blot analysis showed that two other drugs, sinefungin and adenosine-dialdehyde (Adox), have similar effects on the trimethylation H3K27 as 3-deazaneplanocin A and that DZNep is not selective, but globally inhibits histone methylation.  Intriguingly, chromatin immunoprecipitation of various histone modifications and microarray analysis show DZNep acts via a different pathway to 5-aza-2´-deoxycytidine (5-azaCdR), a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor and gives us an interesting insight into how chromatin structure effects gene expression.  We also determine the kinetics of gene activation in order to understand if the induced changes were somatically heritable.  We have found that upon removal of DZNep, gene expression is reduced to its original state suggesting that there is a homeostatic mechanism which returns the histone modifications to their “ground state” after DZNep treatment.  Not only do these studies show the strong need for further development of histone methylation inhibitors but also allow us to better understand how chromatin structure affects gene expression. "'
GSE13733_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"DNA methylation, histone modifications, and nucleosomal occupancy collaborate to cause silencing of tumor related genes in cancer.  The development of drugs that target these processes is therefore important for cancer therapy.   Inhibitors of DNA methylation and histone deacetylation have already been approved by the FDA for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.  However, drugs that target the other mechanisms still need to be developed.  Recently, 3-deazaneplanocin A (DZNep) was reported to selectively inhibit the trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3) and lysine 20 on histone H4 (H4K20me3) as well as re-activate silenced genes in cancer cells.  This finding opens the door to pharmacological inhibition of histone methylation and we therefore wanted to further study the mechanism of action of 3-deazaneplanocin A in cancer cells.  Western blot analysis showed that two other drugs, sinefungin and adenosine-dialdehyde (Adox), have similar effects on the trimethylation H3K27 as 3-deazaneplanocin A and that DZNep is not selective, but globally inhibits histone methylation.  Intriguingly, chromatin immunoprecipitation of various histone modifications and microarray analysis show DZNep acts via a different pathway to 5-aza-2´-deoxycytidine (5-azaCdR), a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor and gives us an interesting insight into how chromatin structure effects gene expression.  We also determine the kinetics of gene activation in order to understand if the induced changes were somatically heritable.  We have found that upon removal of DZNep, gene expression is reduced to its original state suggesting that there is a homeostatic mechanism which returns the histone modifications to their “ground state” after DZNep treatment.  Not only do these studies show the strong need for further development of histone methylation inhibitors but also allow us to better understand how chromatin structure affects gene expression. "'
GSE13775_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Soft tissue sarcoma diagnostics and prognostics are challenging, particularly in highly malignant and pleomorphic subtypes such as undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS) and leiomyosarcoma (LMS). We applied 32K BAC-arrays and gene expression profiling to 18 extremity soft tissue LMS and 31 extremity soft tissue UPS with the aim to identify molecular subtype signatures and genomic prognostic markers. Both the gains/losses and gene expression signatures revealed striking similarities between UPS and LMS, which were indistinguishable using unsupervised hierarchical cluster analysis and significance analysis for microarrays. Gene expression analysis revealed just 9 genes, among them Tropomyosin beta, that were differentially expressed. Loss of 4q31 (encompassing the SMAD1 locus), loss of 18q22 and tumor necrosis were identified as independent predictors of metastasis in multivariate stepwise Cox regression analysis. Combined analysis applying loss of 4q31 and 18q22 and presence of necrosis improved the area under receiver operating characteristic curve for metastasis prediction from 0.64 to 0.86. The extensive genetic similarities between extremity soft tissue UPS and LMS suggest a shared lineage of these STS subtypes and the new and independent genetic prognosticators identified hold promise for refined prognostic determination in high-grade, genetically complex STS."'
GSE13787_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"In this study, we focused on the oncogenic phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway in twelve BLCs, and compared it to a control series of eleven hormonal receptor negative- and grade III- matched HER2+ carcinomas. The two tumor populations were first characterized by immunohistochemistry and gene expression. The PI3K pathway was then investigated by gene copy-number analysis, gene expression profiling and at a proteomic level using reverse phase protein array technology and tissue microarray. The effects of PI3K inhibition pathway on proliferation and apoptosis was further analyzed in three human basal-like cell lines."'
GSE13787_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The PI3K pathway was found to be activated in BLCs and up-regulated compared to HER2+ tumors as shown by a significantly increased activation of the downstream targets Akt and mTOR. BLCs expressed significantly lower levels of the tumor suppressor PTEN and PTEN levels correlated negatively in a significant manner with Akt activity within that population. PTEN protein expression correlated significantly with PTEN DNA copy number and more importantly, reduced PTEN DNA copy numbers were observed specifically in BLCs. Similarly to human samples, basal-like cell lines exhibited an activation of PI3K / Akt pathway and low/lack PTEN expression.  Both PI3K and mTOR inhibitors led to basal-like cell growth arrest. However, apoptosis was observed specifically after PI3K inhibition."'
GSE13798_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"The forkhead DNA-binding protein FOXP3 is critical for the development and suppressive function of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (TREG), which play a key role in maintaining self tolerance. Functionally, FOXP3 is capable of repressing transcription of cytokine genes regulated by the Nuclear Factor of Activated T cells (NFAT). Various mechanisms have been proposed by which FOXP3 mediates these effects. Using novel HEK cell lines that inducibly express either wild-type (WT) or mutant FOXP3, we have identified genome-wide expression patterns showing among other features that NFAT2 as an early target of FOXP3-mediated transcriptional repression."'
GSE13818_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Cells transiently adapt to hypoxia by globally decreasing protein translation. However, specific proteins needed to respond to hypoxia evade this translational repression. The mechanisms of this phenomenon remain unclear. We screened for and identified small molecules that selectively decrease HIF-2a translation in an mTOR independent manner, by enhancing the binding of Iron Regulatory Protein 1 (IRP1) to a recently reported Iron-Responsive Element (IRE) within the 5’-untranslated region (UTR) of the HIF-2a message. Knocking down the expression of IRP1 by shRNA abolished the effect of the compounds. Hypoxia de-represses HIF-2a translation by disrupting the IRP1- HIF-2a IRE interaction. Thus, this chemical genetic analysis describes a molecular mechanism by which translation of the HIF-2a message is maintained during conditions of cellular hypoxia through inhibition of IRP-1 dependent repression. It also provides the chemical tools for studying this phenomenon."'
GSE13828_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is one of the most common inherited forms of neurological disease leading to infant mortality.  Patients exhibit selective loss of lower motor neurons resulting in muscle weakness, paralysis, and often death.  Although patient fibroblasts have been used extensively to study SMA, motor neurons have a unique anatomy and physiology which may underlie their vulnerability to the disease process.  Here we report the generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from skin fibroblast samples taken from a child with SMA.  These cells expanded robustly in culture, maintained the disease genotype, and generated motor neurons that showed selective deficits compared to those derived from the child’s unaffected mother.  This is the first study to show human iPS cells can be used to model the specific pathology seen in a genetically inherited disease.  As such, it represents a promising resource to study disease mechanisms, screen novel drug compounds, and develop new therapies."'
GSE13857_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We sought to identify the transcripts that responded to changes in cellular SFPQ/PSF (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (PTB)-associated splicing factor) protein levels by expression profile analysis of PSF knockdown cells. We constructed clonal HeLa cell lines stably expressing small hairpin RNAs (shRNA) targeted to various regions within the PSF CDS. For microarray studies, we chose two clones (#s 1_1 and 3_1) harboring independently targeted shRNAs that showed ~50% reduction of the endogenous PSF protein. As controls, we used two independent clones harboring a non-targeting shRNA (#s 6_2 and 6_4). Microarray analysis of total cellular RNA identified the transcripts that were reproducibly upregulated (>1.5 fold, n=284) and downregulated (< 0.66 fold, n=121) in both independent knockdown cell lines, and hence were likely enriched in the nonrandomly responding species. We next studied the effects of PSF depletion on particular gene categories. Analysis of the transcripts with unique RefSeq identifiers (n=15805) using PANTHER tools at http://www.pantherdb.org (Molecular Function) revealed significant nonrandom responses of transcripts encoding ribosomal proteins (RP) (downregulation, n=150, P=2.9E-04), while other subgroups exhibited higher P-values. We wondered whether the nonrandomly affected transcripts shared nucleotide sequence features that might account for their response to PSF depletion. To extract such features, we analyzed the mRNAs representing the top up- and downregulated species (n=100 each) as well as the “ribosomal protein” category retrieved from PANTHER database (n=150)  for the presence of shared sequence motifs, by using Gibbs motif sampling and dscan software at http://bayesweb.wadsworth.org/gibbs/gibbs.html. The Gibbs sampling returned very similar shared signatures for the up- and downregulated species; and a very similar signature (motif #3) was elicited from the combined up and downregulated datasets (n=200). Notably, a related signature was also elicited from RP sequences. In order to assign unbiased probabilities to the nonrandomness of motif occurrence, we used nucleotide frequency matrices representing motif #3 and dscan utility to calculate the hit scores in the up and downregulated mRNAs. As a control, the same procedure was performed on samplings (n=100) randomly extracted from human EST sequence databases, and the hit scores were evaluated using the Mann-Whitney test. We found that the random samplings featured only low scores, while the PSF-repressed and, to even greater extent, the PSF-activated samplings exhibited significantly higher scores (P=0.01 and P=0.0001,  respectively; α=0.05), and similar P-values were obtained when using different control samplings. These data revealed a correlation between PSF-responsiveness and high occurrence of a particular sequence signature, and suggested that the presence of such sequences could contribute to the response. Because PSF can directly bind mRNA in vivo, it was plausible that it recognized the motifs directly, as part of mRNA. Indeed, comparison of motif #3 to the direct PSF-binding sites in pre-mRNA revealed a similarity that included a common UGNAGC signature, whereas the SELEX-derived PSF aptamers shared the core GYYG signature. In addition, the motif #3 also exhibited, albeit to a different extent, direct repeats of a trinucleotide CUG that were not found in the CLIP and SELEX signatures. Since such sequences have not been previously noted in PSF-binding RNA, their significance was not clear. However, the pre-mRNA CLIPs were nonrandomly enriched in CUG‘s constituent dinucleotides CU and UG, possibly reflecting a shared recognition determinant. In summary, our results showed that PSF regulates specific subsets of human genes, and suggested that PSF-mRNA recognition could contribute to the regulation."'
GSE13857_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Two biological replicates were analyzed for the control and knockdown cell lines. "'
GSE13887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_title	"Activation of mTOR controls the loss of TCRζ in lupus T cells through HRES-1/Rab4-regulated lysosomal degradation"'
GSE13887_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"CD3-positive T cells were negatively isolated from 10 SLE patients and 9 healthy controls without SLE.  All of the SLE samples and control samples were compared with one another to identify baseline differences in expression due to the disease.  Next, T cell preparations from 4 of the control subjects were stimulated with either Nitric Oxide (NOC-18) 600 uM for 24hr or stimulated through CD3/CD28 for 24hr to determine which genes were responsive to these signaling mechanisms. Here, we show that activity of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which is a sensor of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, is increased in SLE T cells. Activation of mTOR was inducible by NO, a key trigger of MHP which in turn enhanced the expression of HRES-1/Rab4, a small GTPase that regulates recycling of surface receptors through early endosomes. Expression of HRES-1/Rab4 was increased in SLE T cells and, in accordance with its dominant impact on the endocytic recycling of CD4, it was inversely correlated with diminished CD4 expression. HRES-1/Rab4 over-expression was also inversely correlated with diminished TCRζ protein levels. Combined with follow up studies, these results suggest that activation of mTOR causes the loss of TCRζ in lupus T cells through HRES-1/Rab4-dependent lysosomal degradation."'
GSE13911_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Gastric cancers with mismatch repair (MMR) inactivation are characterised by microsatellite instability (MSI). In this study, the transcriptional profile of 38 gastric cancers with and without MSI was analysed."'
GSE13911_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Unsupervised analysis showed that the immune and apoptotic gene networks efficiently discriminated these two cancer types. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed numerous gene expression changes associated with the MSI phenotype. Amongst these, the p53-responsive genes maspin and 14-3-3 sigma were significantly more expressed in tumours with than without MSI. A tight immunosurveillance coupled with a functional p53 gene response is consistent with the better prognosis of MSI cancers. Frequent silencing of MLH1 and downregulation of MMR target genes, such as MRE11 and MBD4, characterised MSI tumours. The downregulation of SMUG1 was also a typical feature of these tumours. The DNA repair gene expression profile of gastric cancer with MSI is of relevance for therapy response."'
GSE13915_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a switch of polarized epithelial cells to a migratory, fibroblastoid phenotype, is considered a key process driving tumor cell invasiveness and metastasis.  Using breast cancer cell lines as a model system, we sought to discover gene-expression signatures of EMT with clinical and mechanistic relevance.  A supervised comparison of epithelial and mesenchymal breast cancer lines defined a 200-gene EMT signature that was prognostic across multiple breast cancer cohorts.  Immunostaining of LYN, a top-ranked EMT signature gene and Src-family tyrosine kinase, was associated with significantly shorter overall survival (P=0.02), and correlated with the basal-like (“triple-negative”) phenotype.  In mesenchymal breast cancer lines, RNAi-mediated knockdown of LYN inhibited cell migration and invasion, but not proliferation.  Dasatinib, a dual-specificity tyrosine kinase inhibitor, also blocked invasion (but not proliferation) at nanomolar concentrations that inhibit LYN kinase activity, suggesting that LYN is a likely target and invasion a relevant endpoint for dasatinib therapy.  Our findings define a prognostically-relevant EMT signature in breast cancer, and identify LYN as a mediator of invasion and possible new therapeutic target (and theranostic marker for dasatinib response), with particular relevance to clinically-aggressive basal-like breast cancer."'
GSE13919_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"The androgen receptor (AR) plays a key role in progression to incurable androgen-ablation resistant prostate cancer (PCA).  We have identified three novel AR splice variants lacking the ligand binding domain (designated as AR3, AR4 and AR5) in hormone insensitive PCA cells. AR3, one of the major splice variants expressed in human prostate tissues, is constitutively active and its transcriptional activity is not regulated by androgens or antiandrogens. Immunohistochemistry analysis on tissue microarrays containing 429 human prostate tissue samples shows that AR3 is significantly upregulated during PCA progression and AR3 expression level is correlated with the risk of tumor recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Overexpression of AR3 confers ablation-independent growth of PCA cells while specific knock-down of AR3 expression (without altering AR level) in hormone resistant PCA cells attenuates their growth under androgen-depleted conditions in both cell culture and xenograft models, suggesting an indispensable role of AR3 in ablation-independent growth of PCA cells.  Furthermore, AR3 may play a distinct yet essential role in ablation-independent growth through regulating a unique set of genes including AKT1, which are not regulated by the prototype AR. Our data suggest that aberrant expression of AR splice variants may be a novel mechanism underlying ablation-independence during PCA progression and AR3 may serve as a prognostic marker to predict patient outcome in response to hormonal therapy. Given that these novel AR splice variants are not inhibited by currently available anti-androgen drugs, development of new drugs targeting these AR isoforms may potentially be effective for treatment of ablation-resistant PCA."'
GSE13989_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Unique and shared cytogenetic abnormalities have been documented for marginal zone lymphomas (MZLs) arising at different sites. Recently, homozygous deletions of the chromosomal band 6q23, involving the tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3, A20) gene, a negative regulator of NF-kappa B, were described in ocular adnexal MZL, suggesting a role for A20 as a tumor suppressor in this disease entity. Here, we investigated inactivation of A20 by DNA mutations or deletions in a panel of extranodal (EMZL), nodal (NMZL) and splenic (SMZL) MZLs. Inactivating mutations encoding truncated A20 proteins were identified in 6/32 (18.8%) MZLs, including 3/11 (27.3%) EMZLs, 2/9 (22.2%) NMZLs, and 1/12 (8.3%) SMZLs. Two additional unmutated non-splenic MZLs also showed mono- or biallelic A20 deletions by FISH and/or array-CGH. Thus, A20 loss by both somatic mutations and/or deletions represents a common genetic aberration across all MZL subtypes, which may contribute to lymphomagenesis by inducing constitutive NF-kappa B activation."'
GSE13991_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Modulation of gene expression in U251 glioblastoma cells by binding of mutant p53 to intronic and intergenic sequences"'
GSE13991_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"For the study of the consequences of mutant p53 (R273H) knockdown on gene expression, total RNA from parental U251 glioblastoma cells and UsiA12 clone was prepared from two independent cell culture experiments (biological replicates) and processed for microarray-based profiling of gene expression. UsiA12 clone was derived from the U251 cells transfected with the pSuper-p53 and pCI-neo vectors."'
GSE13991_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"For the study of the consequences of mutant p53 (R273H) knockdown on gene expression, total RNA from parental U251 glioblastoma cells and UsiA12 clone was prepared from two independent cell culture experiments (biological replicates) and processed for microarray-based profiling of gene expression. UsiA12 clone was derived from the U251 cells transfected with the pSuper-p53 and pCI-neo vectors."'
GSE13995-GPL7752_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"at 20q11.1-11.2 in v-hESC-1 and a deletion at 5q34a-5q34b;5q3 and a mosaic gain of chromosome 12 in v-hESC-2. These results emphasize the need for functional"'
GSE13995-GPL7753_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"at 20q11.1-11.2 in v-hESC-1 and a deletion at 5q34a-5q34b;5q3 and a mosaic gain of chromosome 12 in v-hESC-2. These results emphasize the need for functional"'
GSE14003_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has recently emerged as a major target for drug development in cancer therapy. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib has clinical activity in multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. Here we report that Eeyarestatin I (EerI), a chemical inhibitor that blocks ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD), has anti-tumor and biologic activities similar to bortezomib, and can synergize with bortezomib. Like bortezomib, EerI-induced cytotoxicity requires the upregulation of the BH3 only pro-apoptotic protein NOXA.  We further demonstrate that both EerI and bortezomib activate NOXA via an unanticipated mechanism that requires cooperation between two processes: First, these agents elicit an integrated stress response program at the ER to activate the CREB/ATF transcription factors ATF3 and ATF4. We show that ATF3 and ATF4 form a complex capable of binding to the NOXA promoter, which is required for NOXA activation. Second, EerI and bortezomib also block ubiquitination of histone H2A to relieve its inhibition on NOXA transcription. Our results identify a class of anti-cancer agents that integrate ER stress response with an epigenetic mechanism to induce cell death."'
GSE14011_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We used gene expression microarray studies to identify co-regulated pristimerin-response genes and to deduce the compound’s direct molecular target(s), utilizing pattern-matching algorithms available at the Connectivity Map (Cmap). The early transcriptional response of cells treated with pristimerin closely resembles cellular responses elicited by proteosome inhibitors, with rapid induction of heat shock proteins, activating transcription factor (ATF) 3 and CHOP. Enzymatic assays and immunoblotting confirm that pristimerin rapidly (<90min) and specifically inhibits chymotrypsin-like proteosome activity at low concentrations (<100nM) and causes accumulation of cellular ubiquitinated proteins. Notably, cytotoxic triterpenoids including pristimerin inhibit NF-kB activation via inhibition of IKKa or IKKb while proteosome inhibitors instead suppress NF-kB function by impairing degradation of ubiquitinated-IkB. By inhibiting both IKK and the proteosome pristimerin causes overt suppression of constitutive NF-kB activity in myeloma cells that may mediate its suppression of cyclin D. Multiple myeloma is exquisitely sensitive to proteosome or NF-kB pathway inhibition. Consistent with this, pristimerin is potently and selectively lethal to primary myeloma cells (IC50<100nM), inhibits xenografted plasmacytoma tumors in mice and is synergistically cytotoxic with bortezomib – providing the rationale for pharmaceutical development of triterpenoid dual-function proteosome/NF-kB inhibitors as therapeutics for human multiple myeloma and related malignancies."'
GSE14016-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a hematopoietic malignant disease characterized by the chromosomal translocation t(15;17), resulting in the formation of the PML-RARA gene.  Here, 47 t(15;17) APL samples were analyzed with high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism microarray (50K and 250K SNP-chips) using the new algorithm AsCNAR (allele-specific copy-number analysis using anonymous references).  Copy-number-neutral loss of heterozygosity (CNN-LOH) was identified at chromosome 10q (3 cases), 11p (3 cases) and 19q (1 case).  Twenty-eight samples (60%) did not have an obvious alteration (normal-copy-number [NC] group).  Nineteen samples (40%) showed either one or more genomic abnormalities: 8 samples (17%) had trisomy 8 either with or without an additional duplication, deletion, or CNN-LOH (+8 group); and 11 samples (23%) had genomic abnormalities without trisomy 8 (other abnormalities group).  These chromosomal abnormalities were acquired somatic mutations.  Interestingly, FLT3-ITD mutations (11/47 cases) only occurred in the group with no genomic alteration (NC group).  Taken together, these results suggest that the pathway of development of APL differs in each group: FLT3-ITD, trisomy 8, and other genomic changes.  Here, we showed for the first time hidden abnormalities and novel disease-related genomic changes in t(15;17) APL."'
GSE14016-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a hematopoietic malignant disease characterized by the chromosomal translocation t(15;17), resulting in the formation of the PML-RARA gene.  Here, 47 t(15;17) APL samples were analyzed with high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism microarray (50K and 250K SNP-chips) using the new algorithm AsCNAR (allele-specific copy-number analysis using anonymous references).  Copy-number-neutral loss of heterozygosity (CNN-LOH) was identified at chromosome 10q (3 cases), 11p (3 cases) and 19q (1 case).  Twenty-eight samples (60%) did not have an obvious alteration (normal-copy-number [NC] group).  Nineteen samples (40%) showed either one or more genomic abnormalities: 8 samples (17%) had trisomy 8 either with or without an additional duplication, deletion, or CNN-LOH (+8 group); and 11 samples (23%) had genomic abnormalities without trisomy 8 (other abnormalities group).  These chromosomal abnormalities were acquired somatic mutations.  Interestingly, FLT3-ITD mutations (11/47 cases) only occurred in the group with no genomic alteration (NC group).  Taken together, these results suggest that the pathway of development of APL differs in each group: FLT3-ITD, trisomy 8, and other genomic changes.  Here, we showed for the first time hidden abnormalities and novel disease-related genomic changes in t(15;17) APL."'
GSE14027_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We investigated the hypothesis that transmigration drives monocyte transcriptional changes.  Using Agilent Whole Human Genome Microarrays, we identified over 600 differentially expressed genes (2x, p<0.05) in freshly isolated human monocytes following 1.5 h of transmigration across IL1beta-stimulated ECs compared to untreated monocytes.  Genes up-regulated by monocyte transmigration belong to a number of overrepresented functional groups including immune response, and inhibition of apoptosis.  qRT-PCR confirmed increased expression of monocyte chemotactic proteins 1 and 3 and of NLR family apoptosis inhibitory protein  (NAIP) following monocyte transmigration.  In addition, quantification of annexin V binding revealed a reduction in apoptosis following monocyte transmigration.  Comparison of gene expression in transmigrated monocytes to additional controls (monocytes which failed to transmigrate and monocytes incubated beneath stimulated ECs) revealed 89 differentially expressed genes which were controlled by the physical process of diapedesis.  Functional annotation of these genes showed down-regulation of antimicrobial genes (e.g. alpha-defensin down 50x, cathelicidin down 9x, and cathepsin G down 3x).  qRT-PCR confirmed down-regulation of these genes.  Immunoblots confirmed that monocyte transmigration down-regulates alpha-defensin protein expression.  Overall, these data indicate that exposure of monocytes to stimulated ECs promotes further monocyte recruitment and inhibits monocyte apoptosis.  Unexpectedly, following transmigration monocytes displayed reduced anti-microbial expression."'
GSE14038_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"Understanding biological pathways critical for common neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) peripheral nerve tumors is essential, as tumor biomarkers, prognostic factors and therapeutics are all lacking.  We used gene expression profiling to define transcriptional changes between primary normal Schwann cells (n = 10), NF1-derived primary benign neurofibroma Schwann cells (n = 22), malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) cell lines (n = 13), benign neurofibromas (n = 26) and MPNST (n = 6).  Dermal and plexiform neurofibromas were indistinguishable.  A prominent theme in the analysis was aberrant differentiation. Neurofibromas repressed gene programs normally active in Schwann cell precursors and immature Schwann cells.  MPNST signatures strongly differed; genes upregulated in the sarcomas were significantly enriched for genes activated in neural crest cells.  We validated differential expression of 82 genes including the neural crest transcription factor SOX9 and SOX9 predicted targets.  SOX9 immunoreactivity was robust in neurofibroma and MPSNT tissue sections and targeting SOX9 - strongly expressed in NF1-related tumors - caused MPNST cell death. SOX9 is a biomarker of neurofibroma and MPNST, and possibly a therapeutic target in NF1."'
GSE14043_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The androgen receptor (AR) directs diverse biological processes through interaction with coregulators such as androgen receptor trapped clone-27 (ART-27). The impact of ART-27 on genome-wide transcription was examined. The studies indicate that loss of ART-27 enhances expression of many androgen-regulated genes, suggesting that ART-27 inhibits gene expression. Surprisingly, classes of genes that are upregulated upon ART-27 depletion include regulators of DNA damage checkpoint and cell cycle progression, suggesting that ART-27 functions to keep expression levels of these genes low."'
GSE14054_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Analysis of Ago2-associated transcripts after knockdown of Importin8"'
GSE14054_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Small regulatory RNAs including small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) guide Argonaute (Ago) proteins to specific target RNAs leading to mRNA destabilization or translational repression. We recently reported the identification of Importin 8 (Imp8) as a novel component of miRNA-guided regulatory pathways. Imp8 interacts with Ago proteins and localizes to cytoplasmic processing bodies (P-bodies), structures involved in RNA metabolism. For this micro-array dataset, we used immunoprecipitations of Ago2-associated mRNAs followed by micro-array analysis. The results demonstrate that Imp8 is required for recruiting Ago protein complexes to a large set of Ago2-associated target mRNAs allowing for efficient and specific gene silencing. Therefore, we provide evidence that Imp8 is required for cytoplasmic miRNA-guided gene silencing."'
GSE14054_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"HeLa cells were transfected with control or Imp8 siRNAs. Each sample was divided into two parts for total RNA extraction and anti-Ago2 immunoprecipitation followed by RNA extraction. In addition to the knockdown of Imp8, total RNA samples were included where the miRNA pathway protein TNRC6B was depleted by RNAi. All micro-array experiments were performed in at least two biological replicates. Total RNA samples and immunoprecipitated RNA samples were hybridized to separate Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Affymetrix microarrays. Microarray data were analyzed using Agilent Genespring software. Expression values below 0.01 were set to 0.01. For each array, each measurement was divided by the 50th percentile of all measurements in that sample. The specific enrichment of each individual transcript can be calculated from its normalized value in the immunoprecipitation sample, divided by its normalized value in the corresponding total RNA sample. "'
GSE14073-GPL6793_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"siRNAs mediate sequence-specific gene silencing in cultured mammalian cells but also silence unintended transcripts. Many siRNA off-target transcripts match the guide-strand ‘‘seed region,’’ similar to the way microRNAs match their target sites. The extent to which this seed-matched, microRNA-like, off-target silencing affects the specificity of therapeutic siRNAs in vivo is currently unknown. Here, we compare microRNA-like off-target regulations in mouse liver in vivo with those seen in cell culture for a series of therapeutic candidate siRNAs targeting Apolipoprotein B (APOB). Each siRNA triggered regulation of consistent microRNA-like off-target transcripts in mouse livers and in cultured mouse liver tumor cells. In contrast, there was only random overlap between microRNA-like off-target transcripts from cultured human and mouse liver tumor cells. Therefore, siRNA therapeutics may trigger microRNA-like silencing of many unintended targets in vivo, and the potential toxicities caused by these off-target gene regulations cannot be accurately assessed in rodent models."'
GSE14092_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"In addition, we performed re-ChIP of AR and ERG in VCaP cells (GSM356767), and examined the effect of ERG knockdown on AR and ERG binding (samples GSM353636-GSM353639)."'
GSE14206_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Analysis of ETS gene expression patterns uncovers novel ETS mediated gene silencing pathways in prostate cancers"'
GSE14206_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Deregulated expression of ETS transcription factors with oncogenic and tumor suppressor function occurs frequently in prostate cancer leading to profound alterations of the cancer transcriptome.  By integrating genomic and functional studies we identified key targets of the aberrantly expressed ETS factors, ERG and ESE3. Altered expression of ETS factors led to the induction of the polycomb group protein EZH2 and silencing of the tumor suppressor Nkx3.1.  Nkx3.1 was controlled by ERG and ESE3 both directly via binding to ETS binding sites in the gene promoter and indirectly via EZH2-induced histone H3K27 methylation.  This may represent a general mechanism linking aberrantly expressed ETS with deregulation of epigenetic pathways and global reprogramming of the prostate epithelial cell transcriptome in prostate tumorigenesis."'
GSE14206_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"In this study we show that deregulated expression of ETS factors with opposite functions is highly frequent in prostate cancer.  Our study uncovers a previously unrecognized link between aberrant expression of ETS factors, deregulation of epigenetic pathways and silencing of tumor suppressor genes in prostate cancer and shows that partially distinct transcriptional programs are associated with different ETS gene expression patterns. The presence of distinct prostate cancer subgroups with different biological features may have important clinical implications and suggests that assessment of ETS expression levels might be useful to distinguish tumors with different clinical outcome."'
GSE14231_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We demonstrated that deregulation of cyclinD1 is the major cause of TGCT cisplatin resistance and it may also be commonly involved in other human cancers. Combined cyclinD1 inhibition and cisplatin chemotherapy may be used clinically to treat the large number of cyclinD1 deregulated resistant tumors."'
GSE14273_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We searched for early ZNF191 target genes by using a transient overexpression and knockdown strategy in the human embryo kidney (HEK293) cells."'
GSE14310_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"In the present study we carried out testicular gene expression profiling of patients with AZFc microdeletion, idiopathic infertility and normal spermatogenesis, in order to identify up- and downregulated genes in the different conditions, and to verify the presence of specific  molecular pathways leading to the spermatogenic damage in patients with AZFc deletions. All samples of patients with AZFc deletion clustered together, showing downregulation of several genes related to spermatogenesis. "'
GSE14314_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"DNA binding anticancer agents cause alteration in chromatin structure and dynamics. Here, we report the dynamic interaction of the DNA intercalator and potential anticancer, plant alkaloid, Sanguinarine (SGR) with chromatin. Association of SGR with different levels of chromatin structure was found to be enthalpydriven. Apart from DNA it binds with comparable affinity to histones and induces chromatin aggregation. The dual binding property of SGR leads to inhibition of core histone modifications. Although, it potently inhibits H3K9 methylation by G9a in vitro, H3K4 and H3R17 methylation are more profoundly inhibited in cells. SGR inhibits histone acetylation both in vitro and in vivo. It does not affect the in vitro transcription from DNA template but significantly represses acetylation dependent chromatin transcription.  SGR mediated repression of epigenetic marks and the alteration of chromatin geography, also result in modulation of global gene expression. These data conclusively, show the anticancer DNA binding intercalator as a modulator of chromatin modifications and transcription in the chromatin context."'
GSE14335_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'haploinsufficiency' in '!Series_summary	"Diamond-Blackfan Anemia (DBA) is a rare inherited red cell hypoplasia characterized by a defect in the maturation of erythroid progenitors and is in some cases associated to malformations. Patients have an increased risk of solid tumors. Mutations have been found  in several ribosomal protein (RP) genes. Studies in hematopoietic progenitors from patients show that the haploinsufficiency of an RP impairs rRNA processing and ribosome biogenesis. DBA lymphocytes and fibroblasts show reduced protein synthesis, and the latter display abnormal rRNA processing and impaired proliferation."'
GSE14347_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"The CMVpp65 protein contains 2 bipartite nuclear localization signals (NLS) at 415-438aa and 537-561aa near the carboxy terminus of CMVpp65 and a phosphate binding site related to kinase activity at lysine-436.  A mutation of pp65 having K436N (CMVpp65mII) and further deletion of aa537-561 resulted in a novel protein (pp65mIINLSKO) that is kinase-less and has markedly reduced nuclear localization.  The purpose of this report was to study the biologic characterization of this protein and its immunogenicity compared to native pp65.Using RNA microarray analysis, expression of the CMVpp65mIINLSKO had less effect on cell cycle pathways than did the native CMVpp65 and a greater effect on cell surface signalling pathways involving immune activity.  It is concluded that the removal of the primary NLS motif from pp65 does not impair its immunogenicity and may actually be advantageous in the design of a vaccine."'
GSE14386_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"IFNβ, an effective therapy against relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS) is naturally secreted during the innate immune response against viral pathogens.  The objective of this study was to characterize the immunomodulatory mechanisms of IFNβ targeting innate immune response and their effects on DC-mediated regulation of T-cell differentiation.  We found that IFNβ−1a in-vitro treatment of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) induced the expression of TLR7 and the members of its downstream signaling pathway, including myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)4, and TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF)6, while it inhibited the expression of IL-1R.  Using siRNA TLR7 gene silencing, we confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in MyD88, IRAK4 and IL-1R expression were dependent on TLR7.  TLR7 expression was also necessary for the IFNβ-1a-induced inhibition of IL-1β and IL-23, and the induction of IL-27 secretion by DCs.  Supernatant (SN) transfer experiments confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in DCs’ cytokine secretion inhibit Th17 cell differentiation as evidenced by the inhibition of retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear hormone receptor C (RORC) and IL-17A gene expression and IL-17A secretion.  Our study has identified a novel therapeutic mechanism of IFNβ−1a, that selectively targets the autoimmune response in MS."'
GSE14386_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"IFNβ, an effective therapy against relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS) is naturally secreted during the innate immune response against viral pathogens.  The objective of this study was to characterize the immunomodulatory mechanisms of IFNβ targeting innate immune response and their effects on DC-mediated regulation of T-cell differentiation.  We found that IFNβ−1a in-vitro treatment of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) induced the expression of TLR7 and the members of its downstream signaling pathway, including myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)4, and TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF)6, while it inhibited the expression of IL-1R.  Using siRNA TLR7 gene silencing, we confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in MyD88, IRAK4 and IL-1R expression were dependent on TLR7.  TLR7 expression was also necessary for the IFNβ-1a-induced inhibition of IL-1β and IL-23, and the induction of IL-27 secretion by DCs.  Supernatant (SN) transfer experiments confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in DCs’ cytokine secretion inhibit Th17 cell differentiation as evidenced by the inhibition of retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear hormone receptor C (RORC) and IL-17A gene expression and IL-17A secretion.  Our study has identified a novel therapeutic mechanism of IFNβ−1a, that selectively targets the autoimmune response in MS."'
GSE14405_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Metastatic colonization involves cancer cell lodgment or adherence in the microvasculature and subsequent migration of those cells across the endothelium into a secondary organ site.  To study this process further, we analyzed transendothelial migration of human PC-3 prostate cancer cells in vitro.  We isolated a subpopulation of cells, TEM4-18, that crossed an endothelial barrier more efficiently, but surprisingly, were less invasive than parental PC-3 cells in other contexts in vitro.  Importantly, TEM4-18 cells were more aggressive than PC-3 cells in a murine metastatic colonization model.  Microarray and FACS analysis of these cells showed that the expression of many genes previously associated with leukocyte trafficking and cancer cell extravasation were either unchanged or down-regulated.  TEM4-18 cells exhibited characteristic molecular markers of an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including frank loss of E-cadherin expression and upregulation of the E-cadherin repressor ZEB1.  Silencing ZEB1 in TEM4-18 cells resulted in increased E-cadherin and reduced transendothelial migration.  TEM4-18 cells also express N-cadherin, which was found to be necessary, but not sufficient for increased transendothelial migration.  Our results extend the role of EMT in metastasis to transendothelial migration and implicate ZEB1 and N-cadherin in this process in prostate cancer cells."'
GSE14417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Genome-wide DNA methylation in CEBPA mutant and CEBPA silenced AML"'
GSE14417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease from the molecular and biological standpoints, and even patients with a specific gene expression profile may present clinical and molecular heterogeneity. We studied the epigenetic profiles of a cohort of patients that shared a common gene expression profile but differed in that only half of them harbored mutations of the CEBPA locus, while the rest presented with silencing of this gene and co-expression of certain T cell markers. DNA methylation studies revealed that these two groups of patients could be readily segregated in an unsupervised fashion based on their DNA methylation profiles alone. Furthermore, CEBPA silencing was associated with the presence of an aberrant DNA hypermethylation signature, which was not present in the CEBPA mutant group. This aberrant hypermethylation occurred more frequently at sites within CpG islands. CEBPA silenced leukemias also displayed marked hypermethylation when compared with normal CD34+ hematopoietic cells, while CEBPA mutant cases showed only mild changes in DNA methylation when compared to these normal progenitors.  Biologically, CEBPA silenced leukemias presented with a decreased response to myeloid growth factors in vitro."'
GSE14417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease from the molecular and biological standpoints, and even patients with a specific gene expression profile may present clinical and molecular heterogeneity. We studied the epigenetic profiles of a cohort of patients that shared a common gene expression profile but differed in that only half of them harbored mutations of the CEBPA locus, while the rest presented with silencing of this gene and co-expression of certain T cell markers. DNA methylation studies revealed that these two groups of patients could be readily segregated in an unsupervised fashion based on their DNA methylation profiles alone. Furthermore, CEBPA silencing was associated with the presence of an aberrant DNA hypermethylation signature, which was not present in the CEBPA mutant group. This aberrant hypermethylation occurred more frequently at sites within CpG islands. CEBPA silenced leukemias also displayed marked hypermethylation when compared with normal CD34+ hematopoietic cells, while CEBPA mutant cases showed only mild changes in DNA methylation when compared to these normal progenitors.  Biologically, CEBPA silenced leukemias presented with a decreased response to myeloid growth factors in vitro."'
GSE14417_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"Direct comparison of DNA methylation in leukemic blasts from 8 patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) carrying a CEBPA mutation and 8 patients with AML without CEBPA mutation but with silencing of CEBPA expression. Two control groups are included: 8 CD34+ bone marrow samples from healthy donors and 9 samples of T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (T-ALL) patients."'
GSE14428_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"Physiological defects associated with short hairpin RNA-mediated silencing of PGC-1-related coactivator (PRC)"'
GSE14428_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"PRC, a member of the PGC-1 coactivator family, is responsive to serum growth factors and up regulated in proliferating cells. Here, we investigated its in vivo role by stably silencing PRC expression with two different short hairpin RNAs (shRNA#1 and shRNA#4) that were lentivirally introduced into U2OS cells. ShRNA#1 transductants exhibited nearly complete knockdown of PRC protein whereas shRNA#4 transductants expressed PRC protein at approximately 15 percent of the control level. Complete PRC silencing by shRNA#1 resulted in a severe inhibition of respiratory growth, reduced expression of respiratory protein subunits from complexes I, II, III and IV, markedly lower complex I and IV respiratory enzyme levels and diminished mitochondrial ATP production. Surprisingly, shRNA#1 transductants exhibited a striking proliferation of abnormal mitochondria that were devoid of organized cristae and displayed severe membrane abnormalities. Although shRNA#4 transductants had normal respiratory subunit expression and a moderately diminished respiratory growth rate, both transductants showed markedly reduced growth on glucose accompanied by inhibition of G1/S cell cycle progression. Microarray analysis revealed striking overlaps in the genes affected by PRC silencing in the two transductants and the functional identities of these overlapping genes were consistent with the observed mitochondrial and cell growth phenotypes. The consistency between phenotype and PRC expression levels in the two independent transductant lines argues that the defects result from PRC silencing and not from off target effects. These results support a role for PRC in the integration of pathways directing mitochondrial respiratory function and cell growth."'
GSE14428_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"PRC, a member of the PGC-1 coactivator family, is responsive to serum growth factors and up regulated in proliferating cells. Here, we investigated its in vivo role by stably silencing PRC expression with two different short hairpin RNAs (shRNA#1 and shRNA#4) that were lentivirally introduced into U2OS cells. ShRNA#1 transductants exhibited nearly complete knockdown of PRC protein whereas shRNA#4 transductants expressed PRC protein at approximately 15 percent of the control level. Complete PRC silencing by shRNA#1 resulted in a severe inhibition of respiratory growth, reduced expression of respiratory protein subunits from complexes I, II, III and IV, markedly lower complex I and IV respiratory enzyme levels and diminished mitochondrial ATP production. Surprisingly, shRNA#1 transductants exhibited a striking proliferation of abnormal mitochondria that were devoid of organized cristae and displayed severe membrane abnormalities. Although shRNA#4 transductants had normal respiratory subunit expression and a moderately diminished respiratory growth rate, both transductants showed markedly reduced growth on glucose accompanied by inhibition of G1/S cell cycle progression. Microarray analysis revealed striking overlaps in the genes affected by PRC silencing in the two transductants and the functional identities of these overlapping genes were consistent with the observed mitochondrial and cell growth phenotypes. The consistency between phenotype and PRC expression levels in the two independent transductant lines argues that the defects result from PRC silencing and not from off target effects. These results support a role for PRC in the integration of pathways directing mitochondrial respiratory function and cell growth."'
GSE14428_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"PRC, a member of the PGC-1 coactivator family, is responsive to serum growth factors and up regulated in proliferating cells. Here, we investigated its in vivo role by stably silencing PRC expression with two different short hairpin RNAs (shRNA#1 and shRNA#4) that were lentivirally introduced into U2OS cells. ShRNA#1 transductants exhibited nearly complete knockdown of PRC protein whereas shRNA#4 transductants expressed PRC protein at approximately 15 percent of the control level. Complete PRC silencing by shRNA#1 resulted in a severe inhibition of respiratory growth, reduced expression of respiratory protein subunits from complexes I, II, III and IV, markedly lower complex I and IV respiratory enzyme levels and diminished mitochondrial ATP production. Surprisingly, shRNA#1 transductants exhibited a striking proliferation of abnormal mitochondria that were devoid of organized cristae and displayed severe membrane abnormalities. Although shRNA#4 transductants had normal respiratory subunit expression and a moderately diminished respiratory growth rate, both transductants showed markedly reduced growth on glucose accompanied by inhibition of G1/S cell cycle progression. Microarray analysis revealed striking overlaps in the genes affected by PRC silencing in the two transductants and the functional identities of these overlapping genes were consistent with the observed mitochondrial and cell growth phenotypes. The consistency between phenotype and PRC expression levels in the two independent transductant lines argues that the defects result from PRC silencing and not from off target effects. These results support a role for PRC in the integration of pathways directing mitochondrial respiratory function and cell growth."'
GSE14429_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The objective of this study is to identify the genes that are up-regulated amid proteasome dysfunction to facilitate the discovery of proteolytic pathways that are activated as a compensatory response to proteasome inhibition. Proteasome is a large multi-component proteolytic complex in the cell. It is responsible for the constitutive turn-over of many cellular proteins as well as the degradation of oxidized and/or unfolded proteins. With such a fundamental role in the cell, disruption of proteasome understandably can lead to disastrous outcome. Oxidative stress has been postulated as the driving mechanism for aging. Oxidatively modified proteins, which usually have lost their activity, require immediate removal by proteasome to maintain normal cellular function. Dysfunction of proteasome has also been linked to neuro-degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases, those that are most commonly seen in aged population. There is more than one proteolytic pathway in the cell, and it has been reported that obstruction of any one of these pathways may enhance the activity of the others. Proteasomal function has been found to have decreased during aging, prompting researchers to hypothesize that failure to remove oxidized proteins may play an important role in aging. It would be interesting to determine the other proteolytic pathways that are activated after proteasome inhibition by a relatively specific inhibitor epoxomicin to help understand their roles in aging processes."'
GSE14434_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_title	"U1 Adaptors: a new gene silencing technology"'
GSE14434_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The goal of the microarray experiment was to do a head-to-head comparison of the U1 Adaptor technology with siRNA in terms of specificity at the genome-wide level.  U1 Adaptors represent a novel gene silencing method that employs a mechanism of action distinct from antisense and RNA interference (RNAi).  The U1 Adaptor is a bifunctional oligonucleotide having a “Target Domain” that is complementary to a site in the target gene's terminal exon and a “U1 Domain” that binds to the U1 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) component of the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (U1 snRNP) splicing factor.  Tethering of U1 snRNP to the target pre-mRNA inhibits 3' end processing (i.e., polyA tail addition) leading to degradation of that RNA species within the nucleus thereby reducing mRNA levels.  We demonstrate that U1 Adaptors can specifically inhibit both reporter and endogenous genes.  Further, targeting the same gene either with multiple U1 Adaptors or with U1 Adaptors and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), strongly enhances gene silencing, the latter as predicted from their distinct mechanisms of action.  Such combinatorial targeting requires lower amounts of oligonucleotides to achieve potent silencing."'
GSE14436_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16INK4a (CDKN2A) is an important tumor-suppressor gene frequently inactivated in human tumors.  p16 suppresses the development of cancer by triggering an irreversible arrest of cell proliferation termed cellular senescence.  Here, we describe another anti-oncogenic function of p16 in addition to its ability to halt cell cycle progression.  We show that transient expression of p16 stably represses the hTERT gene, encoding the catalytic subunit of telomerase, in both normal and malignant breast epithelial cells.  Short-term p16 expression increases the amount of histone H3 trimethylated on lysine 27 (H3K27) bound to the hTERT promoter, resulting in transcriptional silencing, likely mediated by polycomb complexes.  Our results indicate that transient p16 exposure may prevent malignant progression in dividing cells by irreversible repression of genes, such as hTERT, whose activity is necessary for extensive self-renewal."'
GSE14479_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"Genome-wide gene expression in CEBPA mutant and CEBPA silenced AML and in T-ALL"'
GSE14479_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease from the molecular and biological standpoints, and even patients with a specific gene expression profile may present clinical and molecular heterogeneity. We studied the epigenetic profiles of a cohort of patients that shared a common gene expression profile but differed in that only half of them harbored mutations of the CEBPA locus, while the rest presented with silencing of this gene and co-expression of certain T cell markers. DNA methylation studies revealed that these two groups of patients could be readily segregated in an unsupervised fashion based on their DNA methylation profiles alone. Furthermore, CEBPA silencing was associated with the presence of an aberrant DNA hypermethylation signature, which was not present in the CEBPA mutant group. This aberrant hypermethylation occurred more frequently at sites within CpG islands. CEBPA silenced leukemias also displayed marked hypermethylation when compared with normal CD34+ hematopoietic cells, while CEBPA mutant cases showed only mild changes in DNA methylation when compared to these normal progenitors.  Biologically, CEBPA silenced leukemias presented with a decreased response to myeloid growth factors in vitro."'
GSE14479_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease from the molecular and biological standpoints, and even patients with a specific gene expression profile may present clinical and molecular heterogeneity. We studied the epigenetic profiles of a cohort of patients that shared a common gene expression profile but differed in that only half of them harbored mutations of the CEBPA locus, while the rest presented with silencing of this gene and co-expression of certain T cell markers. DNA methylation studies revealed that these two groups of patients could be readily segregated in an unsupervised fashion based on their DNA methylation profiles alone. Furthermore, CEBPA silencing was associated with the presence of an aberrant DNA hypermethylation signature, which was not present in the CEBPA mutant group. This aberrant hypermethylation occurred more frequently at sites within CpG islands. CEBPA silenced leukemias also displayed marked hypermethylation when compared with normal CD34+ hematopoietic cells, while CEBPA mutant cases showed only mild changes in DNA methylation when compared to these normal progenitors.  Biologically, CEBPA silenced leukemias presented with a decreased response to myeloid growth factors in vitro."'
GSE14479_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_overall_design	"Direct comparison of gene expression in leukemic blasts from 8 patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) carrying a CEBPA mutation and 8 patients with AML without CEBPA mutation but with silencing of CEBPA expression, and with 9 samples of T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (T-ALL) patients."'
GSE14491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_title	"TGFβ/mutant-p53 jointly controlled genes"'
GSE14491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"TGFβ ligands act as tumor suppressors in early stage tumors but are paradoxically diverted into potent prometastatic factors in advanced cancers. The molecular nature of this switch remains enigmatic. We now show that TGFβ-dependent cell migration, invasion and metastasis are empowered by mutant-p53."'
GSE14491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"To investigate the specific gene expression program by which mutant-p53 and TGFβ control invasion and metastasis in breast cancer cells, we compared the TGFβ transcriptomic profile of control and mutant-p53 depleted MDA-MB-231 cells."'
GSE14491_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_overall_design	"MDA-MB-231 cells, stably expressing either control (shGFP) or anti-p53 (shp53) short-hairpin RNAs, were left untreated or treated with TGFbeta. Samples were then processed for total RNA extraction and hybridization on Affymetrix microarrays. Four biological replicas (A, B, C, D) were used for each of the 4 conditions (1: untreated control; 2: TGFbeta treated control; 3: untreated p53-depleted cells; 4: TGFbeta treated mutant-p53-depleted cells), for a total of 16 samples."'
GSE14532_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Telomerase controls cell immortality and is a promising cancer target. Understanding transcriptional regulation of the catalytic subunit hTERT is critical to realise effective telomerase therapeutics. GSK3 inhibition suppresses hTERT expression."'
GSE14538_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Several reports indicate that mesalazine (5-aminosalicylic acid or 5-ASA) is a promising candidate for the chemoprevention of Colo-Rectal Cancer (CRC) due to its ability to reach the purpose, yet avoiding at the same time the side effects that are usually determined by prolonged administrations of Non Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs. This activity of 5-ASA is probably the consequence of a number of effects determined on colon cancer cells and consisting of reduced proliferation, increased apoptosis and activation of cell cycle checkpoints. A recent observation has suggested that these effects could be mediated by the capacity of 5-ASA to interfere with the nuclear translocation of beta-catenin, in turn responsible for the inhibition of its transcription activity. The aim of our study was to better characterize the molecular mechanism by which 5-ASA inhibits the beta-catenin signaling pathway. To address this issue we assessed, by means of the Affymetrix microarray methodology, the transcriptome changes determined on Caco2 cells by a 96 h treatment with 20 mM mesalazine."'
GSE14543_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"EWS-FLI1 is a chimeric ETS transcription factor that is, due to a chromosomal rearrangement, specifically expressed in Ewing’s sarcoma family tumors (ESFT) and is thought to be the initiating event in the development of the disease. Previous genomic profiling experiments have identified a number of EWS-FLI1 regulated genes and genes that discriminate ESFT from other sarcomas, but so far a comprehensive analysis of EWS-FLI1 dependent molecular functions characterizing this aggressive cancer is lacking. In this study a molecular function map of ESFT was constructed based on an integrative analysis of gene expression profiling experiments on a uniform microarray platform following EWS-FLI1 knockdown in a panel of five ESFT cell lines, and on gene expression data from the same platform of 59 primary ESFT tumors. Based on the assumption that EWS-FLI1 is the driving transcriptional force in ESFT pathogenesis, we predicted an inverse correlation of gene expression for EWS-FLI1 regulated genes between the putative tissue of origin and the cell lines under EWS-FLI1 knockdown conditions. Consistent with recent reports, mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPC) were found to fit this hypothesis best and were therefore used as the reference tissue for the construction of the molecular function map in ESFT."'
GSE14543_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'lacking' in '!Series_summary	"EWS-FLI1 is a chimeric ETS transcription factor that is, due to a chromosomal rearrangement, specifically expressed in Ewing’s sarcoma family tumors (ESFT) and is thought to be the initiating event in the development of the disease. Previous genomic profiling experiments have identified a number of EWS-FLI1 regulated genes and genes that discriminate ESFT from other sarcomas, but so far a comprehensive analysis of EWS-FLI1 dependent molecular functions characterizing this aggressive cancer is lacking. In this study a molecular function map of ESFT was constructed based on an integrative analysis of gene expression profiling experiments on a uniform microarray platform following EWS-FLI1 knockdown in a panel of five ESFT cell lines, and on gene expression data from the same platform of 59 primary ESFT tumors. Based on the assumption that EWS-FLI1 is the driving transcriptional force in ESFT pathogenesis, we predicted an inverse correlation of gene expression for EWS-FLI1 regulated genes between the putative tissue of origin and the cell lines under EWS-FLI1 knockdown conditions. Consistent with recent reports, mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPC) were found to fit this hypothesis best and were therefore used as the reference tissue for the construction of the molecular function map in ESFT."'
GSE14575_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"The androgen receptor (AR) plays a critical role in prostate cancer. We identified an ubiquitin E3 ligase RNF6 as one of AR-associated proteins in a proteomic screening. RNF6 induces AR ubiquitination and promotes AR transcriptional activity. Specific knockdown of the endogenous RNF6 alters expression of a subset of AR target genes and diminishes recruitment of AR and its coactivators to androgen responsive elements (AREs) present in the regulatory region of these genes. Furthermore, RNF6 is overexpressed in human hormone-refractory prostate cancer tissues and required for prostate cancer cell growth under androgen-depleted conditions. Our work has provided a novel mechanism by which AR transcriptional activity and specificity is regulated, and identified RNF6 as a potential new target for prostate cancer treatment."'
GSE14581_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"The NOTCH gene has an important role during the CNS development, in the maintenance of dividing cells in promoting neural lineage entry of Embryonic Stem Cells and the differentiation of astroglia from the rat adult hippocampus-derived multipotent progenitors. The activation of the NOTCH signaling requires the proteolytic processing of this type I integral membrane protein by a two step process catalyzed first by a metalloprotease and then by the gamma-secretase. An increased activation of the NOTCH signaling has been implicated in several tumors types. Recently some studies showed that this pathway induces the survival/proliferation in GBM and glioma cells, and the expression of stem cell properties in glioma cells. Accordingly to these findings, the inhibition of this pathway leads to depletion of stem-like cells and blocks the engraftment in embryonal brain tumors. Furthermore, enhanced NOTCH signaling may lead to one of the tumor resistance mechanisms deployed by GBM. Targeting the NOTCH pathway specifically in GBM TICs appears therefore as a rational approach for exploring novel and hopefully more effective therapeutic strategies for the management of this malignancy. "'
GSE14581_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_overall_design	"To establish which cellular processes are activated in GBM TICs by LLNle we generated and analyzed the gene expression profile after treatment with this compound and with DAPT and DMSO (vehicle). Our data show that LLNle induces upregulation of genes coding for proteasome subunits and subsequently mitotic arrest in these cells by repressing genes required for DNA synthesis and mitotic progression and by activation of genes acting as mitotic inhibitors. Our data are consistent with proteasome inhibition by LLNle, subsequent upregulation of proteasome activity and subsequent unleash of the apoptotic process in GBM TICs."'
GSE14588-GPL5188_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Differentiating erythroid cells execute a unique gene expression program that insures synthesis of the appropriate proteome at each stage of maturation. Standard expression microarrays provide important insight into erythroid gene expression, but cannot detect qualitative changes in transcript structure, mediated by RNA processing, that alter structure and function of encoded proteins. We analyzed stage-specific changes in the late erythroid transcriptome via use of high resolution microarrays that detect altered expression of individual exons. Ten differentiation-associated changes in erythroblast splicing patterns were identified, including the previously known activation of protein 4.1R exon 16 splicing. Six new alternative splicing switches involving enhanced inclusion of internal cassette exons were discovered, as well as three changes in use of alternative first exons. All of these erythroid stage-specific splicing events represent activated inclusion of authentic annotated exons, suggesting they represent an active regulatory process rather than a general loss of splicing fidelity. The observation that three of the regulated transcripts encode RNA binding proteins (SNRP70, HNRPLL, MBNL2) may indicate significant changes in the RNA processing machinery of late erythroblasts.  Together these results support the existence of a regulated alternative pre-mRNA splicing program that is critical for late erythroid differentiation."'
GSE14588-GPL8119_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Differentiating erythroid cells execute a unique gene expression program that insures synthesis of the appropriate proteome at each stage of maturation. Standard expression microarrays provide important insight into erythroid gene expression, but cannot detect qualitative changes in transcript structure, mediated by RNA processing, that alter structure and function of encoded proteins. We analyzed stage-specific changes in the late erythroid transcriptome via use of high resolution microarrays that detect altered expression of individual exons. Ten differentiation-associated changes in erythroblast splicing patterns were identified, including the previously known activation of protein 4.1R exon 16 splicing. Six new alternative splicing switches involving enhanced inclusion of internal cassette exons were discovered, as well as three changes in use of alternative first exons. All of these erythroid stage-specific splicing events represent activated inclusion of authentic annotated exons, suggesting they represent an active regulatory process rather than a general loss of splicing fidelity. The observation that three of the regulated transcripts encode RNA binding proteins (SNRP70, HNRPLL, MBNL2) may indicate significant changes in the RNA processing machinery of late erythroblasts.  Together these results support the existence of a regulated alternative pre-mRNA splicing program that is critical for late erythroid differentiation."'
GSE14617_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockout' in '!Series_title	"CRY2 knockout in MCF7 cells"'
GSE14617_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"CRY2 expression was silenced in MCF7 cells using siRNA oligos, in order to examine the impact of CRY2 knockdown on carcinogenic processes.  CRY2 was ~3-fold down-regulated in both replicates, relative to negative control. "'
GSE14627_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"We have identified ZNF423 (also known as Ebfaz, OAZ or Zfp423) as a component critically required for retinoic acid (RA)-induced differentiation. ZNF423 associates with the RARα/RXRα nuclear receptor complex and is essential for transactivation in response to retinoids. Down-regulation of ZNF423 expression by RNA interference in neuroblastoma cells results in a growth advantage and resistance to RA-induced differentiation, whereas overexpression of ZNF423 leads to growth inhibition and enhanced differentiation. Futhermore, we show that low ZNF423 expression is associated with poor disease outcome of neuroblastoma patients. To identify the other key pathways regulated by ZNF423 in human neuroblastoma, we expressed elevated levels of ZNF423 in SH-SY5Y cells and performed full genome gene expression analysis in these cells."'
GSE14632_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a proinflammatory cytokine that exerts a wide range of cellular, physiological and pathophysiological responses. Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) antagonizes the cellular responsiveness to IL-6 through impairment in STAT3 activation and downstream signaling. Here, a transcriptional profiling was conducted as a basis for understanding the biological properties of PDTC in human HepG2 hepatocarcinoma cells. A global comparison of mRNA identified a highly significant difference of dysregulated gene expression transduced by PDTC versus IL-6 in HepG2 cells. Through an unbiased pathway analysis method, we have uncovered the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway together with rapid and dynamic alterations in REDD1 (regulated in development and DNA damage response 1) expression as one of the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for IL-6 resistance to PDTC. Quantitative PCR and Western blot analyses validated the microarray data by showing the reciprocal pattern of REDD1 expression and subsequent mTOR inhibition after stimulation with PDTC relative to IL-6."'
GSE14656-GPL2004_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In order to investigate the effects of stroma, we derived early passage cell lines from nine primary tumors and compared their genomic signature with that of the primary tumors by 100K SNP array analysis. The average concordance between tumor and cell line for raw LOH (loss of heterozygosity) calls was 96% (range 91%-99%) and for raw copy number alterations (CNA), 71% (range 43%-87%). In general, there were a larger number of LOH events identified in the cell lines compared to the matched tumor samples (mean increase 3.2% ± 1.9%)."'
GSE14656-GPL2005_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"In order to investigate the effects of stroma, we derived early passage cell lines from nine primary tumors and compared their genomic signature with that of the primary tumors by 100K SNP array analysis. The average concordance between tumor and cell line for raw LOH (loss of heterozygosity) calls was 96% (range 91%-99%) and for raw copy number alterations (CNA), 71% (range 43%-87%). In general, there were a larger number of LOH events identified in the cell lines compared to the matched tumor samples (mean increase 3.2% ± 1.9%)."'
GSE14668_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated acute liver failure (ALF) is a dramatic clinical syndrome due to a sudden loss of hepatic cells leading to multiorgan failure. The mechanisms whereby HBV induces ALF are unknown. We used gene expression profiling to establish a molecular definition of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated ALF. Two patients who underwent liver transplantation for HBV-associated ALF were studied. Gene expression profiling was performed on 8 liver specimens obtained from the two patients with ALF (4 samples per liver) and individual liver specimens from 8 liver donors and normal livers from 11 patients who underwent resection for angioma. Statistical analyses were used to identify the signature genes of HBV-associated ALF. Multivariate permutation analysis identified 1,368 transcripts that were differentially expressed in ALF; 709 were up-regulated and 659 down-regulated. The most represented up-regulated transcripts were those involved in the immune response, whereas the most abundant down-regulated transcripts were those involved in metabolism and hepatic synthesis. ALF was characterized by overriding B-cell signature comprising genes related to mature B cells and plasma cells with abundant polyclonal expression of immunoglobulin genes.  By contrast, there was a limited T-cell signature and up-regulation of several inhibitors of T-cell activation. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the prominent B-cell signature showing diffuse liver infiltration by plasma blasts and plasma cells with strong cytoplasmic staining for IgM and IgG, associated with a significant deposition of complement factors. Using phage display technology, we demonstrated that the molecular target of the massive intrahepatic antibody response is the hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg). These data suggest that the humoral immunity may exert a primary role in the pathogenesis of HBV-associated ALF."'
GSE14680_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_title	"Expression data from multiple myeloma cells overexpressing CS1 versus CS1 knockdown"'
GSE14680_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_overall_design	"Human multiple myeloma cell lines with and without CS1 expression, either by transffecting CS1 overexpressing vector or lentiviral CS1 shRNA, were subject to total RNA extraction and hybridization on Affymetrix microarrays. We sought to define the common genes underexpressed in CS1 knockdown myeloma cells whereas overexpressed in CS1 overexpressing myeloma cells to gain insight into CS1-targeting genes in order to define the molecular mechanisms regulated by CS1 in multiple myeloma."'
GSE14711_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from somatic cells of patients by viral vector-mediated factor transduction represent a powerful tool for biomedical research and may provide a source for cell replacement therapies. However, the proviruses encoding the reprogramming factors represent a major limitation of the current technology because even low vector expression may alter the differentiation potential of the iPSCs and induce malignant transformation. Here we show that fibroblasts from five patients with idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) can be efficiently reprogrammed into hiPSCs and subsequently differentiated into dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, we derived PD specific hiPSCs free of reprogramming factors using Cre-recombinase excisable viruses. Upon factor deletion these cells maintain a pluripotent state and intact karyotype. Importantly, these factor-free hiPSCs show a global gene expression profile, which is more closely related to hESCs than to hiPSCs carrying the transgenes. Our results indicate that residual transgene expression in conventional virus-carrying hiPSCs can affect their molecular characteristics and that factor-free hiPSCs therefore represent a more suitable source of cells for modeling of human disease."'
GSE14746_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"AHI-1 is an oncogene often targeted by provirus insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemias and lymphomas.  Aberrant expression of human AHI-1 occurs in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) cells and in CD4+CD7- Sezary cells from patients with Sezary syndrome (SS).  Stable knockdown of AHI-1 using retroviral-mediated RNA interference in CTCL cells inhibits their transforming activity in vitro and in vivo.  To identify genes involved in AHI-1-mediated transformation, microarray analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed genes in AHI-1 suppressed CTCL cells.  Fifteen up-regulated and six down-regulated genes were identified and confirmed by Q-RT-PCR.  Seven were further confirmed in a microarray analysis of CD4+CD7- Sezary cells from SS patients.  HCK and BIN1 emerged as new candidate cooperative genes, with differential protein expression which correlates with observed transcript changes.  Interestingly, changes in HCK phosphorylation and biological response to its inhibitor, dasatinib, were observed in AHI-1 suppressed or overexpressed cells.  The tumor suppressor BIN1 physically interacts with MYC in CTCL cells, which also exhibit differential MYC protein expression.  In addition, aberrant expression of alternative splicing forms of BIN1 was observed in primary and transformed CTCL cells.  These findings indicate that HCK and BIN1 may play critical roles in AHI-1-mediated leukemic transformation of human CTCL cells."'
GSE14749-GPL8196_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Lysine 56 acetylation in the helical core of histone H3 opens yeast chromatin and enables histone gene transcription, DNA replication, DNA repair, and prevents epigenetic silencing. While K56Ac is globally abundant in yeast and flies its presence has been uncertain in mammals. We show here using mass spectrometry and genome wide analyses that K56Ac is present in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) overlapping strongly at active and inactive promoters with the binding of the key regulators of pluripotency NANOG, SOX2 and OCT4. This includes also the canonical histone gene promoters and those for the hESC-specific microRNAs. K56Ac then relocates to developmental genes upon cellular differentiation. Thus K56Ac state more accurately reflects the epigenetic differences between hESCs and somatic cells than other active histone marks such as H3 K4 tri-methylation and K9 acetylation. These results suggest that K56Ac is involved in the human core transcriptional network of pluripotency."'
GSE14755_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_title	"Expression profiling of GIST: CD133 is associated with KIT exon 11 deletion, gastric location and poor prognosis"'
GSE14755_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_overall_design	"Tumors with and without KIT exon 11 deletion were compared using a common reference design."'
GSE14777_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"DNA-binding anticancer agents cause alteration in chromatin structure and dynamics. Here, we report the dynamic interaction of the DNA intercalator and potential anticancer, plant alkaloid, sanguinarine (SGR) with chromatin. Association of SGR with different levels of chromatin structure was found to be enthalpy driven. Apart from DNA, it binds with comparable affinity to histones and induces chromatin aggregation. The dual binding property of SGR leads to inhibition of core histone modifications. Although it potently inhibits H3K9 methylation by G9a in vitro, H3K4 and H3R17 methylation are more profoundly inhibited in cells. SGR inhibits histone acetylation both in vitro and in vivo. It does not affect the in vitro transcription from DNA template but significantly represses acetylation-dependent chromatin transcription.  SGR mediated repression of epigenetic marks and the alteration of chromatin geography also result in modulation of global gene expression. These data conclusively show that the anticancer DNA-binding intercalator as a modulator of chromatin modifications and transcription in the chromatin context."'
GSE14798_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Microgravity has a dramatic impact on human physiology, illustrated in particular with skeletal muscle impairment. A thorough understanding of the mechanisms leading to loss of muscle mass and structural disorders is necessary for the definition of efficient clinical and spaceflight countermeasures. We investigated the effects of long-term bed rest on transcriptome of soleus (SOL) and vastus lateralis (VL) muscles in healthy women (BRC group, n=8), and the potential beneficial impact of protein supplementation (BRN group, n=8) and of a combined resistance and aerobic training (BRE group, n=8). Gene expression profiles were obtained using an in-house made microarray containing 6681 muscles-relevant genes. A two-class statistical analysis was applied on the 2103 genes with consolidated expression. We identified 472 and 207 modified genes, respectively for SOL and VL in BRC group.  Further clustering approaches, identifying relevant biological mechanisms or pathways, underlined five main subclusters. Three are composed almost of upregulated genes involved mainly in nucleic acid and protein metabolism, and two composed almost of downregulated genes involved in energy metabolism. Exercise countermeasure demonstrated a drastic compensatory effect, decreasing the number of differentially-expressed genes by 89 and 96% in SOL and VL. In contrast, nutrition countermeasure had a moderate effect and decreased the number of differentially-expressed genes by 40 and 25% in SOL and VL. Our results allowed reporting a systematic, global and comprehensive view of long-term woman muscle atrophy and brought new lights and insights for space environment and for women who undergo a long-term clinical bed rest."'
GSE14801_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"To further define the role of ERG in the regulation of normal EC function we used RNA interference to knockdown ERG.  Knockdown of ERG in human umbilical vein EC (HUVEC) using siRNA was associated with the reduction of a number known ERG targets."'
GSE14803_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_overall_design	"Cells were digested in 10µl TE, pH 9, and 0.5µl proteinase K (20mg/ml) for 48h at 55°C. After inactivation of proteinase K at 99°C for 10min, the digest was stored at -20°C.  Without any further purification, the complete digest was used for whole genome amplification by means of the WGA (Whole Genome Amplification) kit from Sigma following the manufacturer’s recommendations. Array CGH was performed as described previously. In brief, two µg of amplified tumor and reference DNA were labelled by random priming (BioPrime® Total Genomic Labeling System, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) with Alexa Fluor® 3 and Alexa Fluor® 5, respectively, and hybridized onto a tiling path BAC array, consisting of the human 32k BAC Re-Array Set (BACPAC Resources Center; http://bacpac.chori.org/pHumanMinSet.htm; DNA kindly provided by Pieter de Jong) and a 1Mb Resolution BAC set (clones kindly provided by Nigel Carter, Wellcome Trust Sanger Centre). All protocols are provided in detail on our website (http://www.molgen.mpg.de/~abt_rop/molecular_cytogenetics/) and more information concerning this platform have been submitted to the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/; GLP: 5114). For the analysis and visualization of array CGH data, our software-package CGH-PRO was employed. No background subtraction was applied. Raw data were normalized by “Subgrid LOWESS”. For the assessment of copy number gains and losses, we used circular binary segmentation in combination with log2 ratio thresholds of 0.15 and -0.15, respectively. High copy amplifications were defined by focal appearance and a log2 ratio exceeding 0.45. In order to statistically investigate the similarity of aberration profiles we applied Pearson's product-moment correlation to cbs ratios of each of the corresponding arrays."'
GSE14828_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Fibroblast growth factor-2 delays the loss of chondrogenic potential in adult bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells"'
GSE14831_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"microRNAs in the miR-106b family are overexpressed in multiple tumor types and are correlated with the expression of genes that regulate the cell cycle. Consistent with these observations, miR-106b family gain of function promotes cell cycle progression, whereas loss of function reverses this phenotype. Microarray profiling uncovers multiple targets of the family, including the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21/CDKN1A. We show that p21 is a direct target of miR-106b and that its silencing plays a key role in miR-106b-induced cell cycle phenotypes. We also show that miR-106b overrides a doxorubicin-induced DNA damage checkpoint. Thus, miR-106b family members contribute to tumor cell proliferation in part by regulating cell cycle progression and by modulating checkpoint functions. "'
GSE14831_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"microRNAs in the miR-106b family are overexpressed in multiple tumor types and are correlated with the expression of genes that regulate the cell cycle. Consistent with these observations, miR-106b family gain of function promotes cell cycle progression, whereas loss of function reverses this phenotype. Microarray profiling uncovers multiple targets of the family, including the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21/CDKN1A. We show that p21 is a direct target of miR-106b and that its silencing plays a key role in miR-106b-induced cell cycle phenotypes. We also show that miR-106b overrides a doxorubicin-induced DNA damage checkpoint. Thus, miR-106b family members contribute to tumor cell proliferation in part by regulating cell cycle progression and by modulating checkpoint functions. "'
GSE14839_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"The decreasing numbers of Donation after Brain Death (DBD) donors necessitates the comprehensive evaluation of Donation after Cardiac Death Donors (DCD) as a source of pancreata.  The aim of this study was to characterize pancreata and islets from DCD and DBD donors with respect to markers of cellular stress that may indicate compromised islet quality.   Immunohistochemical staining of pre-isolation pancreas biopsies found increased numbers of caspase 3 positive islets in DBD, while markers of oxidative stress (nitrotyrosine, CML, and HNE) were elevated in DCD.  Assessment of islet quality by standard (yield, morphology, fluorescence microscopy, and glucose stimulated insulin secretion) and novel methods (flow cytometry, HPLC quantification of ATP) did not reveal significant differences.  However, the post culture loss of DCD islets was increased compared to DBD, and DCD islets showed delayed functional potency when transplanted into diabetic NOD.scid mice.  Microarray analysis of cultured islets showed increased expression of multiple stress pathway related genes in DCD compared to DBD.  Together these data indicate that the current standard donor management, pancreas recovery and preservation practices are insufficient to quench the oxidative stress injury suffered by DCD islets which leads to loss in culture and may complicate their use in clinical transplant."'
GSE14842_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Increased numbers of mast cells and their products have been linked to symptom onset and severity in patients with chronic diarrhea and abdominal pain.  Although mast-cell inhibition ameliorates clinical manifestations and reduces mucosal inflammation, underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown."'
GSE14852_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'knockdown' in '!Series_summary	"We identified a novel lipogenic gene, ELOVL7, as an over-expressed gene in prostate cancer (PC) cells and it is involved in elongation of long-chain fatty acids and can play some important roles in prostate carcinogenesis. To investigate into downstream pathways of ELOVL7, we performed the gene expression analysis by the genome-wide cDNA microarrays. The genome–wide gene expression patterns were compared between PC cells transfected with siELOVL7 and these with siCONTROL and between the ELOVL7-overexpressing in-vivo tumors in mice bread with high fat diet (HFD) and those with normal diet (ND). HFD treatment significantly promoted the growth of ELOVL7-overexpressed PC cells in vivo. As a result, we identified five genes (IER3, HDAC8, GDF15, UGT2B11, and S1PR3) whose expressions were down-regulated with 20% and more in ELOVL7 knockdown and also were up-regulated with 20% and more in the tumors in the mice bread with HFD. "'
GSE14860-GPL7260_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Although 75% of endometrial cancers are treated at an early stage, 15% to 20% of these recur. We performed an integrated analysis of genome-wide expression and copy-number data for primary endometrial carcinomas with extensive clinical and histopathological data to detect features predictive of recurrent disease. Unsupervised analysis of the expression data distinguished 2 major clusters with strikingly different phenotypes, including significant differences in disease-free survival. To identify possible mechanisms for these differences, we performed a global genomic survey of amplifications, deletions, and loss of heterozygosity, which identified 11 significantly amplified and 13 significantly deleted regions. Amplifications of 3q26.32 harboring the oncogene PIK3CA were associated with poor prognosis and segregated with the aggressive transcriptional cluster. Moreover, samples with PIK3CA amplification carried signatures associated with in vitro activation of PI3 kinase (PI3K), a signature that was shared by aggressive tumors without PIK3CA amplification. Tumors with loss of PTEN expression or PIK3CA overexpression that did not have PIK3CA amplification also shared the PI3K activation signature, high protein expression of the PI3K pathway member STMN1, and an aggressive phenotype in test and validation datasets. However, mutations of PTEN or PIK3CA were not associated with the same expression profile or aggressive phenotype. STMN1 expression had independent prognostic value. The results affirm the utility of systematic characterization of the cancer genome in clinically annotated specimens and suggest the particular importance of the PI3K pathway in patients who have aggressive endometrial cancer."'
GSE14860-GPL7264_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"Although 75% of endometrial cancers are treated at an early stage, 15% to 20% of these recur. We performed an integrated analysis of genome-wide expression and copy-number data for primary endometrial carcinomas with extensive clinical and histopathological data to detect features predictive of recurrent disease. Unsupervised analysis of the expression data distinguished 2 major clusters with strikingly different phenotypes, including significant differences in disease-free survival. To identify possible mechanisms for these differences, we performed a global genomic survey of amplifications, deletions, and loss of heterozygosity, which identified 11 significantly amplified and 13 significantly deleted regions. Amplifications of 3q26.32 harboring the oncogene PIK3CA were associated with poor prognosis and segregated with the aggressive transcriptional cluster. Moreover, samples with PIK3CA amplification carried signatures associated with in vitro activation of PI3 kinase (PI3K), a signature that was shared by aggressive tumors without PIK3CA amplification. Tumors with loss of PTEN expression or PIK3CA overexpression that did not have PIK3CA amplification also shared the PI3K activation signature, high protein expression of the PI3K pathway member STMN1, and an aggressive phenotype in test and validation datasets. However, mutations of PTEN or PIK3CA were not associated with the same expression profile or aggressive phenotype. STMN1 expression had independent prognostic value. The results affirm the utility of systematic characterization of the cancer genome in clinically annotated specimens and suggest the particular importance of the PI3K pathway in patients who have aggressive endometrial cancer."'
GSE14882_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Results and Interpretation: Hierarchical cluster analysis elucidated that the relative abundance of mutant mtDNA molecules is decisive for the nuclear gene expression response. Further analyses confirmed not only transcription factors already known to be involved in mitochondrial diseases (such as TFAM), but also detected the hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α)/HIF-1β complex, nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) and CREB-related transcription factors as novel master regulators for reconfiguration of nuclear gene expression in response to the MELAS mutation. Correlation analyses of gene alterations and clinico-genetic data detected significant correlations between A3243G-induced nuclear gene expression changes and mutant mtDNA load as well as disease characteristics. These potential disease-modifying genes influencing the expression of the MELAS phenotype are mainly related to clusters primarily unrelated to cellular energy metabolism, but important for nucleic acid and protein metabolism, and signal transduction. Our data thus provide a framework to search for new pathogenetic concepts and potential therapeutic approaches to treat the MELAS syndrome."'
GSE14936_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inhibition' in '!Series_summary	"Approximately 15% of lung cancer cases are not associated with smoking and show molecular and clinical characteristics distinct from those in smokers.  Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutations, which are correlated with sensitivity to EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), are more frequent in never-smoker lung cancers.  In this study, microRNA (miRNA) expression profiling of 28 never-smoker lung cancer cases identified aberrantly expressed miRNAs, which were much fewer than in lung cancers of smokers and included miRNAs previously identified (e.g., upregulated miR-21) and unidentified (e.g., downregulated miR-138) in those smoker cases.  The changes in expression of some of these miRNAs were more remarkable in cases with EGFR mutations than in those without: the most upregulated miRNA, miR-21, was more abundant in cancers with EGFR mutation.  A significant correlation between phosphorylated-EGFR (p-EGFR) and miR-21 levels in lung carcinoma cell lines and the suppression of miR-21 by an EGFR-TKI, AG1478, suggested that the EGFR signaling pathway positively regulated miR-21 expression.  In a never-smoker-derived lung adenocarcinoma cell line H3255 with mutant EGFR and high levels of p-EGFR and miR-21, antisense inhibition of miR-21 enhanced AG1478-induced apoptosis.  In a never-smoker-derived adenocarcinoma cell line H441 with wild-type EGFR, the antisense miR-21 not only showed the additive effect with AG1478 but also induced apoptosis by itself.  These results suggest that aberrantly increased expression of miR-21, which is further enhanced by the activated EGFR signaling pathway, plays a critical role in lung carcinogenesis in never-smokers and is a potential therapeutic target in both EGFR mutant and wild-type cases."'
GSE14936_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'mutant' in '!Series_summary	"Approximately 15% of lung cancer cases are not associated with smoking and show molecular and clinical characteristics distinct from those in smokers.  Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutations, which are correlated with sensitivity to EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), are more frequent in never-smoker lung cancers.  In this study, microRNA (miRNA) expression profiling of 28 never-smoker lung cancer cases identified aberrantly expressed miRNAs, which were much fewer than in lung cancers of smokers and included miRNAs previously identified (e.g., upregulated miR-21) and unidentified (e.g., downregulated miR-138) in those smoker cases.  The changes in expression of some of these miRNAs were more remarkable in cases with EGFR mutations than in those without: the most upregulated miRNA, miR-21, was more abundant in cancers with EGFR mutation.  A significant correlation between phosphorylated-EGFR (p-EGFR) and miR-21 levels in lung carcinoma cell lines and the suppression of miR-21 by an EGFR-TKI, AG1478, suggested that the EGFR signaling pathway positively regulated miR-21 expression.  In a never-smoker-derived lung adenocarcinoma cell line H3255 with mutant EGFR and high levels of p-EGFR and miR-21, antisense inhibition of miR-21 enhanced AG1478-induced apoptosis.  In a never-smoker-derived adenocarcinoma cell line H441 with wild-type EGFR, the antisense miR-21 not only showed the additive effect with AG1478 but also induced apoptosis by itself.  These results suggest that aberrantly increased expression of miR-21, which is further enhanced by the activated EGFR signaling pathway, plays a critical role in lung carcinogenesis in never-smokers and is a potential therapeutic target in both EGFR mutant and wild-type cases."'
GSE14972_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'loss of' in '!Series_summary	"NASP (Nuclear Autoantigenic Sperm Protein) is a linker histone chaperone required for normal cell division. Changes in NASP expression significantly affect cell growth and development; loss of gene function results in embryonic lethality. However, the mechanism by which NASP exerts its effects in the cell cycle is not understood. To understand the pathways and networks that may involve NASP function, we evaluated gene expression in HeLa cells in which NASP was either overexpressed or inhibited by siRNA."'
GSE14994-GPL3921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'inactivation' in '!Series_summary	"Recent insights into the role of the VHL tumor suppressor gene in hereditary and sporadic clear cell carcinoma of the kidney (ccRCC) have led to new treatments for patients with metastatic ccRCC, although virtually all patients eventually succumb to the disease. We performed an integrated, genome-wide analysis of copy-number changes and gene expression profiles in 90 tumors, including both sporadic and VHL disease-associated tumors, in hopes of identifying new therapeutic targets in ccRCC. We identified 14 regions of nonrandom copy-number change, including 7 regions of amplification (1q, 2q, 5q, 7q, 8q, 12p, and 20q) and 7 regions of deletion (1p, 3p, 4q, 6q, 8p, 9p, and 14q). An analysis aimed at identifying the relevant genes revealed VHL as one of 3 genes in the 3p deletion peak, CDKN2A and CDKN2B as the only genes in the 9p deletion peak, and MYC as the only gene in the 8q amplification peak. An integrated analysis to identify genes in amplification peaks that are consistently overexpressed among amplified samples confirmed MYC as a potential target of 8q amplification and identified candidate oncogenes in the other regions. A comparison of genomic profiles revealed that VHL disease-associated tumors are similar to a subgroup of sporadic tumors, and thus more homogeneous overall. Sporadic tumors without evidence of biallelic VHL inactivation fell into 2 groups: one group with genomic profiles highly dissimilar to the majority of ccRCC, and a second group with genomic profiles that are much more similar to tumors with biallelic inactivation of VHL."'
GSE14994-GPL3921_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'deletion' in '!Series_summary	"Recent insights into the role of the VHL tumor suppressor gene in hereditary and sporadic clear cell carcinoma of the kidney (ccRCC) have led to new treatments for patients with metastatic ccRCC, although virtually all patients eventually succumb to the disease. We performed an integrated, genome-wide analysis of copy-number changes and gene expression profiles in 90 tumors, including both sporadic and VHL disease-associated tumors, in hopes of identifying new therapeutic targets in ccRCC. We identified 14 regions of nonrandom copy-number change, including 7 regions of amplification (1q, 2q, 5q, 7q, 8q, 12p, and 20q) and 7 regions of deletion (1p, 3p, 4q, 6q, 8p, 9p, and 14q). An analysis aimed at identifying the relevant genes revealed VHL as one of 3 genes in the 3p deletion peak, CDKN2A and CDKN2B as the only genes in the 9p deletion peak, and MYC as the only gene in the 8q amplification peak. An integrated analysis to identify genes in amplification peaks that are consistently overexpressed among amplified samples confirmed MYC as a potential target of 8q amplification and identified candidate oncogenes in the other regions. A comparison of genomic profiles revealed that VHL disease-associated tumors are similar to a subgroup of sporadic tumors, and thus more homogeneous overall. Sporadic tumors without evidence of biallelic VHL inactivation fell into 2 groups: one group with genomic profiles highly dissimilar to the majority of ccRCC, and a second group with genomic profiles that are much more similar to tumors with biallelic inactivation of VHL."'
GSE14995_series_matrix.txtimp_info.txt	Found 'silencing' in '!Series_summary	"Background: JAG-1 is a ligand of Notch signaling and can regulate cell differentiation and proliferation in cancers. Recent studies indicated that JAG1 is a gene associated with cancer progression. Therefore, we investigated the role of JAG1 in lung cancer progression. Methods: The expression of JAG1 was manipulated by overexpression or RNA silencing in several human lung cell lines. The effect of JAG1 on tumorigenesis and invasion was assessed by the cell anchorage-independent growth, cell proliferation, cell migration and invasion assays in vitro as well as metastasis in vivo. The potential downstream genes of JAG1 were identified by oligonucleotide microarrays and quantitative reverse transcription¡Vpolymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We further measured JAG1 expression in lung cancer specimens by RT-PCR. Correlation between JAG1 expression and overall survival of lung cancer patients was determined by using the log-rank test and multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression analysis. All statistical tests were two-sided. Results: JAG1 enhanced anchorage-independent growth, cell migration, invasion in the lower invasive cells, CL1-0. JAG1 also increased the capability of migration and invasion in the other two lung cancer cell lines (A549 and NCI-H226). The silencing of JAG1 inhibited migration and invasion activities of the higher invasive cells, CL1-5, by siRNA technology. The invasion-promoting activity of JAG1 was also demonstrated in vivo by using a mouse metastasis model. By microarray analysis, we found that the expression of heat shock 70kDa protein 2 (HSPA2) was activated by JAG1 overexpression and eliminated by JAG1 silencing. Moreover, lung cancer patients with high JAG1 expressing tumors had shorter overall survival than those with low-expressing tumors. Conclusion: JAG1 might be an oncogene which promotes colonogenesis and metastasis, and high JAG1 expression is associated with shorten survival in lung cancer."'
